Chocolate Beet Cake
1 cup Red Beet Puree (from 3 Medium Beets)
1/2 cups Cocoa Powder
2 cups Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 pinch Salt
1/4 cups Canola Oil
1-1/2 cup Sugar
2 Eggs
3/4 cups Warm Water
1 teaspoon Vanilla
FOR THE RED BEET GLAZE:
1 cup Powdered Sugar
2 Tablespoons Red Beet Puree
1 Tablespoon Corn Syrup
1 Tablespoon Water

Start by making the beet puree. Peel and chop all the beets and place them in a sauce pot filled with water. Boil until fork tender, then blend while beets are still warm. You may add some of the boiled water in to make a smooth puree. Set aside 2 tablespoons for the glaze, and the rest should be about 1 cup for the cake.Preheat oven to 350ºF (176ºC). Cut a piece of parchment the size of your cake pan and spray baking spray around the bottom and edges. Place parchment over the bottom and spray again.Sift together cocoa powder, flour, baking soda, and salt. Set aside.In a standing mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, mix oil and sugar. Add eggs. Next, alternately add flour mixture and warm water until smooth. Lastly, add beet puree and vanilla.Pour mixture into prepared cake pan. Bake in the center of the oven for 50–55 minutes or until a toothpick comes out clean. The cake will dome up not spill over.When cake is out of the oven, start the glaze. Sift powdered sugar into a medium size bowl. Add beet puree, corn syrup, and water and whisk until smooth.Place cake on a rack to glaze or just glaze while on a cake plate. You can keep this cake out for a week and it won’t dry out. Enjoy!

Winter Fruit Salad
FOR THE DRESSING:
1 Small Orange, Juice Only
1 Tablespoon Honey
2 teaspoons Poppy Seeds
FOR THE SALAD:
2 Crisp Apples, Diced
1 Small Firm Pear, Diced
1 Large Orange, Peeled And Segmented, Segments Cut Bite-sized
2 Mandarin Oranges, Peeled And Segmented
2 Firm But Ripe Kiwis, Peeled And Diced
1 Firm Persimmon, Diced
1/2 Pomegranate, Arils Only

Add all dressing ingredients to a small jar, screw on the lid and shake well. Set aside until ready to use.Place salad ingredients in a large bowl (or arrange on a platter if you have enough time on your hands). Mix with the dressing and serve immediately.If you need to make this ahead of time, toss the apples and pear with lemon juice right after cutting. Keep the fruit in separate containers until ready to mix. Add the dressing just before serving.

The Chocolate-Bar Cookie Bar
1/2 cups Butter, At Room Temperature
1/3 cups Brown Sugar
1/3 cups Cane Sugar
1 whole Egg
1/4 cups Nut Butter
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1-1/2 cup Whole Wheat Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
3/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Sea Salt, Plus Extra For Sprinkling
1/2 cups Chopped Chocolate Bar (I Used Square Organics)
1/3 cups Chopped Nuts
1/4 cups Chocolate Chips, For Garnish

Preheat oven to 350ºF and grease and 8×8 baking pan with butter (or oil).In a large mixing bowl, cream butter and sugars using a handheld or stand mixer on high until smooth and fluffy. Add egg, nut butter and vanilla, one at a time, and beat again until incorporated. Set aside.Combine dry ingredients in a small bowl and stir. Slowly scoop spoonfuls of the dry ingredient mixture into the large bowl of butter-sugar-egg mixture. Keep mixing speed on low to prevent flour from flying everywhere. Mix until just combined and gently fold in chocolate bar chunks and nuts.Transfer batter into the greased baking pan and lightly press it to evenly spread throughout the pan. Sprinkle with sea salt and chocolate chips and bake for 20–22 minutes, or until golden brown and a toothpick comes out clean.Cool before slicing. Store in an airtight container at room temperature or in the fridge. Enjoy!Note: See related blog post for a Square Organics discount code!

Pomegranate and Pistachio Chocolate Snowflakes
50 grams Dark Chocolate
4 teaspoons Coconut Oil, Divided
2 Tablespoons Cacao Butter
1 teaspoon Maple Syrup
1/2 whole Pomegranate
1/4 cups Pistachios

Melt dark chocolate and mix with 1 teaspoon coconut oil. Pour into the mold and leave in the fridge to harden.Melt cacao butter and mix with remaining coconut oil. Add maple syrup or another sweetener of your choice. Pour onto the chocolate layer and add pomegranate seeds and pistachios.Leave in the fridge for a few hours until set, or in the freezer to speed up the process.

Browned Butter Cranberry Chocolate Chip Cookies
1 stick Butter
1/4 cups Sugar
1 cup Brown Sugar
1 whole Egg
1 whole Egg Yolk
2 Tablespoons Milk Of Choice
1 Tablespoon Vanilla
1-1/2 cup Flour
3/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1/4 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/2 cups Chocolate Chips
1/2 cups Fresh Cranberries

Begin by browning the butter. In a medium skillet over medium heat, add butter. The butter will melt, then begin to foam and pop, then turn golden brown. When there are small flecks at the bottom of the pan and the butter begin to smell nutty, remove from the heat and pour into a glass bowl. Put the bowl in the fridge and allow the butter to cool until almost solid again.Once the butter is close to solidifying (about 30 minutes), add to the bowl of a mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Add sugars and cream sugars and butter together. Add egg, egg yolk, milk, and vanilla.In a separate bowl, whisk flour, baking soda, salt, and nutmeg. Add flour mixture to the butter mixture until just combined. If mixture is too dry, add more milk 1 tablespoon at a time until dough reaches desired consistency. Finally, mix in chocolate chips and cranberries. Refrigerate dough for at least 30 minutes.After 30 minutes, preheat oven to 350ºF and prep a large baking sheet. Scoop dough into balls and place on the baking sheet. Bake for 11 minutes or until golden brown.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Homemade Twix Cups
FOR THE CRUST:
2/3 cups Coconut Flour
1/4 cups Date Nectar Or Maple Syrup
2 Tablespoons Almond Butter
2 Tablespoons Almond Milk
FOR THE FILLING:
8 Medjool Dates, Soaked In Hot Water For At Least 1 Hour
2 Tablespoons Almond Butter
1 Tablespoon Coconut Flour
FOR THE CHOCOLATE TOPPING:
1/2 cups Chopped Dark Chocolate
2 Tablespoons Almond Butter
1 pinch Sea Salt For Sprinkling

For the crust: Preheat oven to 350ºF and grease a muffin tin with butter or oil.In a food processor, pulse coconut flour, date nectar or maple syrup, almond butter and almond milk until combined and sticking together in a dough form. Press about 1 tablespoon of the dough into each muffin cup and bake for 7–8 minutes. Remove from oven and cool completely.For the filling: Drain soaked dates and toss into the blender with almond butter and coconut flour. Blend until smooth. Spread about 1 tablespoon of the filling on top of each crust portion in the muffin tin. Refrigerate.For the chocolate topping: In a double-boiler or microwave-safe bowl, melt dark chocolate. Stir in almond butter and whisk until smooth. Remove the crusts from the muffin tin and spread evenly on a cooling rack placed over parchment paper (you will make a mess with the chocolate).Pour 1 or 2 tablespoons of the chocolate mixture over each cup just until covered in chocolate. Sprinkle with sea salt and refrigerate until firm. Enjoy!

Chocolate Zucchini Snack Cake
FOR THE CAKE LAYER:
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1 cup Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Dark Cocoa Powder, Sifted (darkest You Can Find, Look For Black Cocoa)
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Fine Salt
1 Large Egg
6 Tablespoons Plain Greek Yogurt
2 Tablespoons Vegetable Oil
2 Tablespoons Hot Brewed Coffee (or Hot Water)
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
1 cup Shredded Zucchini (or Substitute Up To Half Shredded Yellow Squash)
FOR THE GANACHE TOPPING:
4 ounces, weight Semisweet Or Bittersweet Chocolate, Chopped
4 ounces, fluid Heavy Cream

For the cake layer: Preheat oven to 350ºF. Spray metal cake pan with Baker’s Joy, and wrap pan with insulated baking strips (optional, but they keep the cake from forming a hump in the middle).In a large bowl, whisk flour, sugar, cocoa, baking powder, baking soda, and salt; set aside. In a medium bowl, whisk eggs, Greek yogurt, oil, coffee, and pure vanilla extract. Pour wet mixture into bowl containing dry ingredients and mix well. Add shredded zucchini and stir until combined.Pour batter into cake pan and bake for 25–30 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean. Remove from oven and cool completely before topping with ganache.For the ganache topping: Place chopped chocolate in a heat-safe bowl; set aside. In a medium heavy-bottom saucepan, heat cream until just before it reaches the boiling point (small bubbles will form around the edges). Remove cream from heat and pour over chocolate. Let the chocolate and cream steep together for 2 minutes, then whisk gently until the two combine and become shiny, dark, and glossy.When cake is completely cool, pour ganache over cake. Use an offset spatula to spread evenly. Chill cake until service. Store in an airtight container.

Graham Cracker Marshmallows
FOR THE COATING:
1/4 cups Powdered Sugar
2 Tablespoons Cornstarch
FOR THE MARSHMALLOWS:
3/4 cups Cold Water, Divided
7-1/2 teaspoons Powdered Gelatin
1-1/2 cup Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 cup Corn Syrup
1/2 cups Graham Crumbs

To get set up, first you’ll need to sift the powdered sugar and cornstarch mixture for the coating. Spray a 9×13 casserole dish, and dust with the coating mixture. Shake it around so the entire surface is coated. Set aside.To make the marshmallows, add ½ cup cold water to the bottom of the bowl of a standing mixer. Sprinkle over the gelatin and set aside to let it bloom, about 5 minutes. Attach the bowl to the mixer and fit with a whisk attachment.Next, make the sugar syrup. Combine sugar, salt, corn syrup, and remaining ¼ cup water in a medium sauce pot and attach a candy thermometer. Cook on medium high heat until mixture reaches 240ºF (115ºC).Turn the mixer on low speed and slowly incorporate hot sugar syrup into the gelatin mixture. Once all incorporated, turn speed on high and beat for about 5–8 minutes or until mixture has doubled in size and is nice and glossy.Add the graham crumbs at this point and beat on high for another minute.Spray a spatula with some cooking spray (this part is gonna be really sticky) and scoop the marshmallow mixture into the prepared baking dish. Spread as evenly as possible and lightly cover with some plastic wrap (don’t let the plastic touch the marshmallow). Marshmallows will take 3–4 hours to set up.Once marshmallows are set, run a knife around the edge and invert onto a cutting board. Cut 2×2 inch pieces or whatever size you’d like! Put marshmallows in hot cocoa, in between some chocolate bars, or just eat by themselves! Enjoy!

Gluten-Free Magic Cookie Bars with Coconut
1 can (13 1/2 Oz. Size) Full-fat Coconut Milk, Do Not Use Low Fat
11 Tablespoons Honey, Divided (agave For Vegan Version)
2/3 cups Almonds (87g)
1/2 cups Unsweetened Coconut Flakes
1/3 cups Coconut Oil, At Room Temperature (Consistency Of Softened Butter)
3/4 cups Coconut Flour, Sifted (66g, See Note)
2 Tablespoons Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
Pinch Of Salt
1/2 cups Dairy-free Dark Chocolate Chips
2 Tablespoons Melted Almond Butter, Divided

In a large pot set over high heat, whisk coconut milk and 1/2 cup (or 8 tablespoons) honey or agave, reserving the remaining honey for later. Bring mixture to a boil and boil for 1 minute, stirring constantly. Turn heat down to medium and and simmer for 16–20 minutes, stirring frequently, until sauce is reduced to 1 cup (see note).While sauce boils, place almonds and coconut flakes on separate small pans and bake at 350ºF until toasted. This takes about 4–5 minutes for the coconut and about 10–12 minutes for the almonds. Once toasted, finely chop the almonds and set aside.While sauce continues to cook, line an 8×8 inch pan with parchment paper, spraying the sides generously with coconut oil spray. It helps to spray the bottom of the pan before putting in the parchment paper, to secure it.In a large bowl, using an electric hand mixer, beat remaining 3 tablespoons honey or agave with the coconut oil until smooth and creamy. Stir in flour, cocoa powder and a pinch of salt until a wet dough forms.Press dough evenly into the bottom of the pan. This will be a little bit tough, just be patient with it. I found it easiest to use the palms of my hands, rinsing them off every so often, until the dough was pressed in. Do not bake the crust until the coconut milk mixture is done reducing.Once the coconut milk mixture has reduced, transfer to a measuring cup and set aside to cool and thicken a little more while the crust bakes.Now, bake the crust at 350ºF for 7–8 minutes, until edges are lightly golden brown. Your crust will probably rise in a few areas. Once it’s out of the oven, use a small spoon to quickly press it all back down, making sure to not leave any cracks in the crust.As soon as the crust comes out of the often, sprinkle the chopped nuts on top, and lightly press them into the crust. Then sprinkle on the chocolate chips evenly, followed by the coconut flakes.Pour the coconut milk mixture evenly over the top of the surface. Gently shake the pan around until the coconut milk mixture begins to sink between the layers. Drizzle with 1 tablespoon of the melted almond butter.Place into the oven and bake until the sides are lightly golden brown, about 27–28 minutes. Remove from the oven and cool to room temperature. Drizzle with remaining almond butter, cover and refrigerate overnight.The next day, run a very sharp knife around the edge of the pan. Slice into bars and devour.Notes: The coconut flour I usually use needed 3/4 cup, but I also tried it with a different brand and 66g was only 1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon. So please weigh your flour first before trying to make the crust. It’s very important to have the final amount of coconut milk mixture be 1 cup. So I recommend checking it around 16 minutes. If you have more than that, pour it back into the pan and simmer a few minutes longer. You absolutely need to let these sit overnight to make sure the coconut milk really has a chance to chill and thicken.

Protein Strawberry Cheesecake
11 ounces, weight Cream Cheese- Low Fat
5-1/2 cups Greek Yogurt, Plain, Fat Free
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Honey
2 Large Eggs
2 Scoops Vanilla Protein Powder
14 Strawberries, Divided

Preheat oven to 325ºF. Spray a 9-inch springform pan with nonstick cooking spray. Be sure all ingredients are at room temperature before you begin.Using a mixer (handheld or countertop), beat cream cheese, Greek yogurt, vanilla extract and honey until light and fluffy. Add each egg in one by one until mixed well. Mix in protein powder. Be sure to scrape the sides of the mixing bowl to make sure everything is blended well.Fold in 5 sliced strawberries. Pour batter into the pan and place into the oven. Cook at 325ºF for 40 minutes, then lower oven temperature to 200ºF and cook for another 90 minutes.Once cheesecake is golden brown around the edge and a toothpick comes out clean, remove and let rest for 15 minutes. Hull remaining strawberries and place around the cake, making sure each of the 8 slices has a berry. Add the remaining hulled berry to the center.

Nut Cookies
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1 Tablespoon Maple Syrup
1 Tablespoon Almond Butter
1/2 Banana, Mashed
1 pinch Salt
1 cup Ground Hazelnuts
1 cup Ground Almonds
1 Tablespoon Oats
50 grams Whole Almonds

Mix coconut oil, maple syrup, and almond butter. Add mashed banana and salt and mix. Pour in ground hazelnuts and almonds, and oats. Mix again. Dough should be solid but pliable.Heat oven to 200ºC (390ºF) and line a baking tin with parchment paper. Take a small piece of dough, make a small ball, and put on the baking tin. Press the dough and add a few whole almonds for decoration. (I was able to form 6 cookies with the dough.)Bake for 15–18 minutes. Remove from oven and let cool.

Chocolate Truffles
3-1/2 ounces, weight Hazelnuts
5-1/3 ounces, weight Fresh Dates
1-1/4 ounce, weight Cocoa Powder
FOR THE CHOCOLATE COATING:
1-3/4 ounce, weight Dark (70%)chocolate
3 Tablespoons Coconut Milk (or Other Non-dairy Milk)
3 drops Olive Oil, Or As Needed

For the truffles (yields 20 balls): Put hazelnuts in a food processor or a blender and blend until crumbly. Transfer ground hazelnuts to a bowl.Remove the pits from the dates and blend until a ball forms. If you use dry dates, soak them in water for a few hours before blending.Add ground hazelnuts, dates and cocoa powder to a blender and mix well until everything comes together in a ball.Form the truffle balls with your hands. You should be able to roll them into a ball that isn’t too hard or too soft.For the chocolate dressing. place chocolate and milk in a pan and melt over medium heat. When chocolate has melted, add a few drops of olive oil for that extra shine.Roll the chocolate truffles in the chocolate coating and place on a piece of baking paper. Refrigerate until they firm up nicely.

Chocolate Peanut Butter Bars
1-1/2 stick Salted Butter
1/2 cups Chunky Peanut Butter
1-1/2 cup Dark Brown Sugar
2 whole Eggs
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 cup Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350ºF and spray an 8 x 8 dish with cooking spray. Combine butter and chunky peanut butter in a large, microwave safe bowl. Microwave for 30 seconds, then stir together. Microwave another 30 seconds and stir some more. They should be completely melted at this point. Then stir in brown sugar, followed by eggs and vanilla extract. Slowly add flour, baking powder, and cinnamon. Finally, fold in chocolate chips.Spread batter into an even layer in the prepared baking dish and bake for 40–45 minutes. The top should be dry and starting to crisp up around the edges, while the center will still be slightly gooey. Let cool completely, then cut into 16 squares by making 3 equal cuts both vertically and horizontally. Serve immediately or store in an airtight container for up to 3 days. Enjoy!

Soft and Chewy Ginger Cookies
1-1/2 cup Butter, Softened
2 cups Granulated Sugar, Plus More For Rolling
2 whole Eggs
1/2 cups Molasses
4 cups Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Soda
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Ground Cloves
1 teaspoon Ginger
1 teaspoon Salt

In a large mixing bowl, cream butter and sugar until well blended. Add eggs and beat well. Add molasses, mix well.Add dry ingredients to a separate smaller bowl. Mix dry ingredients well and add to wet ingredients. Mix cookies until a stiff dough forms. Chill 1 hour.Shape into 1-inch balls, roll in extra sugar. Place on greased cookie sheet. Bake at 375ºF for 6–7 minutes. Cool on sheet for 3 minutes before removing to rack. Cookies should be soft and chewy.Makes 60 cookies.

Glazed Almond Cookies
1 cup Salted Butter, Softened
1-1/2 cup Granulated Sugar
2 whole Large Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/2 teaspoons Almond Extract
2-3/4 cups Flour
1 Tablespoon Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
30 whole Almonds, For Topping
FOR THE GLAZE:
1 cup Powdered Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Almond Extract
4 teaspoons Milk (or As Needed)

Preheat oven to 350°F.Cream butter and granulated sugar until well blended in a large bowl. Add eggs, vanilla extract, and almond extract. Mix wellCombine flour, baking powder, and salt in a separate bowl. Or, if you’re lazy like me, pour the flour into the wet mixture. Then add the salt and baking powder on top of the flour and mix them into the flour a bit before mixing it into the wet ingredients. One less bowl to wash makes me a happy baker.Mix dry ingredients into butter mixture.Roll dough into 1-inch balls. Position dough on greased cookie sheet and gently press a whole almond into the top of each cookie. For those who don’t like nuts, you can leave the almond off the top. I have to make most of them that way in my house for my husband and older daughter.Bake in preheated oven for 7–8 minutes until edges are golden. Leave on pan to cool for at least 3 minutes. Remove to cooling rack and allow to cool completely.To make the glaze, mix powdered sugar, almond extract, and 2 teaspoons of the milk in a bowl. Gradually add milk until it is the proper consistency. The glaze should just barely be runny enough to drizzle. If it is too wet it will slide right off the cookies. Add more sugar if it is too runny and more milk if it is too stiff.Line cookies up and drizzle the glaze on a whole line of cookies at once to make it easier. Allow the drizzle to set for about 1 hour if you want them to be easy to transport. Or enjoy some right away if you can’t wait.

Cocoa Peppermint Cheesecake
FOR THE GLAZE:
87-1/2 grams Water
75 grams Cream
112-1/2 grams Sugar
37-1/2 grams Cocoa Powder
FOR THE CRUST:
1-1/4 cup Oreo Crumbs
59.1 milliliters Melted Butter
FOR THE CHEESECAKE:
1.08 kilograms Cream Cheese
227 grams Sugar
42.5 grams Cornstarch
106 grams Sour Cream
3 Eggs
1 Egg Yolk
3 Crushed Candy Canes

For the cocoa glaze: Place all ingredients in a medium to large pot, whisk to combine. Bring to a boil, then reduce to a simmer. Attach a candy thermometer to the pot and cook until temperature reaches 210ºF F (98ºC).Pour sauce into another container and cool. Store in a Mason jar or sealed container.For the crust: Preheat oven to 350ºF (176ºC).Mix melted butter with Oreo crumbs. Pour into greased springform pan and press gently with the back of a measuring cup to form a uniform crust. Bake for 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 250ºF (121ºC).For the cheesecake: Place room temperature cream cheese in a standing mixer fitted with a paddle attachment and mix on low speed. You want to keep the speed on low the entire time as to not incorporate too much air into the cheesecake. Next, add sugar, then cornstarch. Scrape down sides as needed.Add sour cream. Then add eggs, one at a time, followed by the yolk. Lastly, fold in crushed candy canes by hand. Pour into cooled springform pan.Bake in a water bath for 1 hour and 25 minutes, or until cheesecake doesn’t seem liquid in the center. Cool for 5 or more hours.Glaze with cocoa sauce once cooled and ready to serve. Enjoy!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Peanut Brittle
3 cups Sugar
1 cup Light Corn Syrup
1/2 cups Water
20 ounces, weight Raw Spanish Peanuts
4 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
2 teaspoons Baking Soda

Coat one large cookie sheet (17×24) with nonstick cooking spray. Set aside.In a heavy 5-quart saucepan with lid, combine sugar, corn syrup, and water. Cover pot, bring mixture to a boil over high heat, about 5 minutes. Dissolve sugar by carefully swirling pot often over burner. Keep lid on, this will prevent crystals of sugar from forming in the candy.Once steam begins to escape from pot, remove cover and reduce heat to medium. Insert candy thermometer, continue to boil until thermometer reaches 300ºF (hard crack stage) and is a rich golden brown color, approximately 14–18 minutes.Add peanuts, stirring constantly with a metal spoon until mixture reaches hard crack (300ºF).Immediately remove from heat. Add butter, vanilla and baking soda. Stir with metal spoon until butter melts; mixture will be foamy. Pour mixture into prepared pan. I do not spread or stretch at this point. The brittle will be thick and honeycombed, not thin. Allow to cool at least 1 hour.Turn brittle out of pan, snap into large or small pieces. Can be stored 6 weeks in an airtight container.

Snowflake Sandwich Cookeis
FOR THE GANACHE FILLING:
1/2 cups Heavy Cream
4 ounces, weight High Quality Semi-sweet Chocolate, Chopped
FOR THE COOKIE DOUGH:
1 cup Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature
1 cup Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Fine Salt
1 Large Egg
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
2-1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1/4 cups Dutch-Processed Cocoa Powder, Sifted

For the ganache filling: In a double boiler or in the microwave, gently heat cream and chocolate together; stirring until completely smooth and combined (I did this in the microwave). Cover and chill for 30 minutes (or make the ganache several hours in advance and let it sit at room temperature until it reaches the proper spreading consistency).For the cookie dough: In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the blade attachment, beat butter on medium high speed for 30 seconds. Add sugar, baking powder, and salt. Beat until combined, scraping bowl as needed. Add egg and vanilla, beat to combine. Add flour until incorporated.Divide dough into two portions, adding sifted cocoa powder to one portion. Wrap each portion with plastic wrap and chill for 1–3 hours.Preheat oven to 375ºF. Roll each dough portion to 1/8-inch thickness on a lightly floured surface. Cut out desired shapes with floured cookie cutters, leaving the bottom halves solid (use the chocolate dough for the top of the sandwich cookies). Place cutouts 2 inches apart on ungreased cookie sheet.Bake in preheated oven for 8 minutes or until edges are set (tiny cutouts bake for 5–6 minutes). Transfer cookies to racks and cool completely.To assemble the cookies, spoon about 1 teaspoon of the ganache filling in the center bottom of each cookie and make a sandwich by adding a decorative top cookie. Sprinkle with powdered sugar if desired. To store, place unfilled cookies in an airtight container, separating layers with waxed paper, at room temperature for 3 days or frozen for up to 3 months. Thaw and fill with ganache just before serving.Recipe adapted from Better Homes and Gardens.

Walnut Fruit Loaf with Lemon Icing
FOR THE FRUIT LOAF:
750 milliliters Water
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
250 grams Unsalted Butter
1 kilogram Fruit Mix (for Fruit Cake)
1/2 cups Walnuts, Chopped Into Small Pieces
1 teaspoon Bicarbonate Of Soda
2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/2 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
4 Eggs, Beaten
4 cups Cake Flour
FOR THE LEMON ICING:
1 cup Icing Sugar (Confectioners Sugar)
1 Tablespoon Fresh Lemon Juice, Or More As Needed
1/4 cups Walnuts, Chopped, To Decorate

For the fruit loaf: Preheat oven to 160°C (320°F) and grease two regular size loaf tins.Place water in a large saucepan with sugar and butter and bring to a simmer. Simmer until butter has melted. Add fruit mix and boil for 15 minutes until fruit has plumped up. Set aside to cool for about 15 minutes.Once fruit mixture has cooled, stir in bicarb of soda, spices, chopped nuts and eggs. Sift flour and stir it into the fruit mixture with a wooden spoon.Divide the mixture evenly between the two loaf tins and make sure it is level. The best way to do this is with your hands.Bake for 30–35 minutes or until loaves bounce back when you touch them and a toothpick comes out clean. Allow loaves to cool to the touch before carefully turning them out onto a cooling rack to cool completely.For the lemon icing: Sift icing sugar into a small bowl, then squeeze in enough fresh lemon juice (1 to 2 tablespoons) to make a thick icing. Stir until smooth, then drizzle over the cooled loaves and top with chopped walnuts.Note: This fruit loaf freezes brilliantly so you can make it ahead of time. You should be able to keep these loaves at room temperature for about a week or so. If the weather is very hot, I suggest keeping the loaves in the fridge.

Cookies and Cream Biscotti
16 Chocolate Sandwich Cookies, Like Oreos Or Trader Jo Jo's
1 cup Sugar
1/3 cups Butter, Melted
3 Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
3 cups Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Power
1/4 teaspoons Salt

Start by scraping the filling of the cookies into a small bowl, set aside. Coarsely chop cookies and set aside in a separate bowl.Preheat oven to 350°F.Beat sugar, butter, eggs, and vanilla in large bowl with electric mixer at medium speed until well-combined. Stir in flour, baking powder, and salt. Fold in chopped cookies.Divide mixture in half. With floured hands, lightly knead dough until cookies are nicely incorporated. Shape each half into a 9×3-inch loaf on a large parchment-lined baking sheet.Bake for 30–35 minutes or until golden brown and toothpick inserted in the centers come out clean. Remove from oven; cool for 10 minutes.Cut each loaf diagonally into 15 half-inch thick slices. Place slices cut side up, on the same baking sheet. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes more on each side or until lightly toasted.While biscotti are finishing in the oven, you can make the drizzle. Heat a double boiler over medium heat until water is simmering. Set the heat-proof bowl with the cookie filling on top and stir until it is completely melted. At this point, you could go ahead and drizzle it on top of the biscotti, or you could add food coloring to it and then drizzle. If you choose to do this, you may need to add a splash of milk to it, as the food coloring may thicken it.

Chocolate-Ribboned Peppermint Ice Cream
FOR THE DARK CHOCOLATE PEPPERMINT FUDGE SAUCE:
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter
2 ounces, weight Bittersweet Chocolate Chips
3/4 cups Sugar
5 Tablespoons Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1/2 cups Heavy Cream
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/8 teaspoons Peppermint Extract
FOR THE ICE CREAM:
3/4 cups Sugar
1 Egg
3 Egg Yolks
1 Tablespoon Cornstarch
2 cups Half-and-Half, Divided
1 cup Heavy Cream
1-1/2 teaspoon Peppermint Extract
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
3/4 cups Crushed Peppermint Candies

For the chocolate sauce: Place butter and chocolate in a bowl over a pan of simmering water. Whisk together sugar and cocoa. Once butter and chocolate are melted, slowly whisk in sugar/cocoa mixture. Heat over the pan of simmering (not boiling) water for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally.Gradually whisk in cream until combined. Continue heating in the bowl over the simmering water for 10 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in the extracts. Pour into a container, cover, and chill in the refrigerator.For the ice cream: In a large bowl, whisk sugar with eggs and yolks for 1–2 minutes. Whisk in cornstarch. Set aside.In a medium saucepan, heat 1 cup of the half-and-half over medium heat until it comes to a simmer. Slowly, whisk hot half-and-half into egg mixture. Pour entire mixture back into the pan and cook on low heat, stirring constantly for about 3–4 minutes, until thickened. The mixture will coat the back of a wooden spoon when thickened.Pour thickened mixture through a fine strainer and into a bowl. Whisk in remaining half-and-half, cream, and extracts. Cover bowl and chill until completely cooled, up to overnight.Before starting the ice cream process, take chocolate sauce out of the refrigerator and leave at room temperature. The sauce will be very thick but will lose some stiffness as it stands.Pour cream into an ice cream maker and process until almost finished. With about 2 minutes remaining in the cycle, add crushed peppermints.Spoon soft ice cream into containers, adding large dollops of chocolate sauce throughout. Press waxed paper onto the top of the containers and cover. Freeze for at least 4 hours or until scoopable.

Chewy Oatmeal Raisin Breakfast Cookies
1 cup Oat Flour
1/2 cups Quick Cooking Oats
1/3 cups Chopped Almonds
1/4 cups Raisins
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/4 teaspoons Ginger
3/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 cups Coconut Oil, Melted And Cooled
1/4 cups Nut Butter (any Kind Works)
1/2 cups Maple Syrup
1 whole Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
Sea Salt For Sprinkling

Combine dry ingredients (flour, oats, almonds, raisins, spices, and baking soda) in a large bowl and stir.In a small bowl, whisk wet ingredients (coconut oil, nut butter, maple syrup, egg, and vanilla). Pour into the dry. Stir until just incorporated. Refrigerate for 45–60 minutes.Preheat oven to 350ºF and line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Scoop large spoonfuls of dough onto the sheet, about 2 inches between each portion and sprinkle with sea salt.Bake for 15–17 minutes or until golden brown around the edges. Remove from oven and let cool on the baking sheet—this allows them to firm up a bit.Serve immediately and store leftovers in a covered container with a small opening for air. This prevents them becoming mushy.

Chevre Hazelnut Linzer Cookies
3/4 cups Butter, Room Temperature
3/4 cups Sugar
4 ounces, weight Goat Cheese, Room Temperature
1 Egg Yolk
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1-1/2 cup Flour
3/4 cups Slightly Roasted Hazelnuts, Finely Ground
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cups Berry Jam
Powdered Sugar, For Topping

Cream butter and sugar with an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Add goat cheese and beat until incorporated. Beat in egg yolk and vanilla.In a medium size bowl, whisk flour, ground hazelnuts, and salt. Add to butter mixture and mix until just combined.Remove dough from mixing bowl and form it in a flat disc. Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate at least 30 minutes.Preheat oven to 350ºF.Roll chilled dough on a floured surface, to about ¼-in thickness. Use linzer cookie cutters to make cookies. Leave some whole for the base of the cookies, and some with the hole cut in the middle for the top of the cookies. Place base of cookies on a parchment-paper-lined cookie sheet and bake cookies 10–12 minutes, or until edges are golden brown.Cool completely. Spread jam on the flat side of each cookie bottom. Dust the cookie tops (cookies with cut outs) with powdered sugar and place on top of the bottoms.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Carrot Ginger Cookies
1-1/4 cup Old Fashioned Oats
1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Ground Ginger
1/4 teaspoons Cloves
1/4 teaspoons Nutmeg
1 pinch Salt
1/2 cups Coconut Oil, Melted
1/2 cups Molasses
2 whole Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
3/4 cups Grated Carrots
1/2 teaspoons Grated Fresh Ginger

Combine oats, flour, baking powder, cinnamon, ground ginger, cloves, nutmeg and salt in a bowl and whisk them all together well. Set bowl aside.Get out a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and beat coconut oil and molasses. Add eggs one at a time, followed by vanilla. Slowly add in the dry ingredients until it all disappears into the liquid. Turn off the mixer and switch to a spatula to fold in grated carrot and fresh ginger. Put the cookie dough in the refrigerator to chill for 25 minutes.When 25 minutes is up, preheat oven to 350ºF and line two sheet pans with silicone mats. Use a 1 1/2 inch cookie scoop to scoop 12 perfect little mounds of dough onto each sheet. Gently press each mound down to flatten the cookie. Bake for about 15 minutes, until set and slightly crisp around the edges. Let cool for about 10 minutes on the sheets, then transfer gently with a spatula to cooking racks to finish cooling. They will be a little soft and flimsy, so that is why the spatula is necessary.Enjoy immediately or pack in containers for later.

Honey Ginger Pecan Cookies
6 Tablespoons Coconut Flour
1/3 cups Chopped Pecans
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Ginger
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/4 cups Natural Sunflower Seed Butter (See Note)
1/4 cups Coconut Oil, Melted And Cooled
1/4 cups Coconut Sugar
1 whole Egg
1 pinch Sea Salt For Sprinkling

Stir together the dry ingredients in a large bowl: flour, pecans, baking soda, and spices. Set aside.Whisk together the wet ingredients: sunflower seed butter, coconut oil, coconut sugar, and egg. Pour into dry ingredients and stir until combined. Refrigerate 30 minutes.Preheat oven to 350ºF and line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Scoop spoonfuls of the dough onto the sheet, keeping about 2 inches between portions. Sprinkle with sea salt.Bake for 12–13 minutes or until golden brown on top. Remove from oven and cool slightly.Serve immediately and store leftovers in an airtight container for up to 1 week. Enjoy!Notes: Any other kind or any other nut/seed butter will work. The one I used came with a small amount of added sugar, so I recommend taking that into consideration when purchasing one with or without added sugar. The chlorophyll inside sunflower seed butter reacts with heat and baking soda/powder and produces a green color (which I discovered after posting this recipe). It’s not a harmful reaction, but it is ugly. I would recommend using another nut butter if that freaks you out.

Old Fashioned Rice Pudding
1 cup Dry Long Grain White Rice
1 Tablespoon Butter
1 pinch Salt
2 cups Water
Raisins, As Desired For Topping (optional)
3 Eggs
6 cups Milk
1 cup Sugar
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
Ground Cinnamon And Nutmeg, For Garnish

Bring rice, butter, salt and water to a boil. Reduce heat to low and simmer until water is absorbed, about 20 minutes. Remove rice from heat and let cool down completely.Once rice has cooled, transfer it to a greased or buttered casserole dish. Top with raisins (optional).Preheat oven to 325ºF.In a large mixing bowl, beat eggs for about 1 minute. Add milk, sugar and vanilla and continue to mix until well combined.Pour the mixture over the rice and bake in oven for about 2 hours or until the pudding is lightly browned and set. Garnish with ground cinnamon and nutmeg.

Aunt Rocky’s Dark Chocolate Rocky Road Candy (Sugar Free)
1/2 cups Walden Farms Marshmallow Dip Cubes (See Note)
8 ounces, weight Unsweetened Baker's Chocolate, Chopped
2 Tablespoons Refined Coconut Oil
4 drops Liquid Sucralose (or Other Liquid Sweetener To Taste)
1/2 cups Confectioner's Swerve (powdered Erythritol)
1/2 cups Pecans, Rough Chopped

Line a small square dish or small bowl with cling wrap, and scoop Walden Farms Marshmallow Dip into it, smoothing the top. Dish should be small enough that the dip is at least 1/2 inch thick. Freeze. (This step should be done several hours before starting the candy, see note below.)Line a 6×8 glass pan with waxed or parchment paper (not cling wrap), with enough paper to hang over the sides. Set aside.Pull frozen marshmallow dip out of the freezer and turn out onto cutting board, removing the cling wrap. Cut into small cubes.Melt chocolate and coconut oil together in microwave for about 1 1/2 minutes. Stir until smooth. Working quickly, add first the liquid Sucralose, then the powered Swerve and nuts. Stir until smooth.Quickly fold in the frozen marshmallow dip cubes, and scoop all into the 6×8 dish. Smooth top. Put in freezer to completely set up.Once set, pull the candy out of the dish using the overlapping edges of parchment and cut into 18 cubes. Store in freezer in an airtight container.Note: Marshmallow cubes should be made at least several hours prior to starting the candy. The measurement is for the cubed frozen marshmallow dip. If you don’t have access to the Walden Farms Marshmallow Dip, substitute any sugar free marshmallow from a recipe, or use KNOW Foods sugar free marshmallows (available online). If using ready made marshmallows, finished candy may be stored in the refrigerator.Nutrition estimates are calculated per serving with My Fitness Pal’s online recipe analyzer. If you make any changes to the ingredients, your results may differ. The recipe is stored there and available to MFP users for logging in their food diaries. I do not include sugar alcohols or liquid Sucralose in my nutrition counts, as they are not absorbed by the body and rate zero on the glycemic index.Calories 109, Total Fat 10 g, Saturated Fat 6 g, Sodium 11 mg, Potassium 12 mg, Total Carbohydrate 4 g, Dietary Fiber 3 g, Net Carbs 1 g, Sugars 0 g, Protein 2 g. Macros: 88% fat, 8% protein, 4% carbs.© December 13, 2017 Roxana Lopez for Aunt Rocky’sFor more low lchf/keto recipes and cooking tips, look for Aunt Rocky’s Low Carb Recipes & Tips Group on Facebook, or follow me on Pinterest at auntrockyI don’t get any commission or kickback for products I use or mention in my recipes. Brand names are included only to assure a similar outcome to mine, and more accurately assess nutritional estimates, which are based on exact ingredients I used.

Creamy Chocolate Fudge
4 cups Sugar
1 cup Butter
1 can (12 Oz. Size) Evaporated Milk
7 ounces, weight Marshmallow Cream
12 ounces, weight Chocolate Chips
2 bars (4.4 Oz. Size) Hershey's Chocolate

Butter a 9 x 13 baking pan, then line the bottom and sides of the pan with parchment paper.In a medium saucepan, add sugar, butter and evaporated milk. Stir often over medium-high heat until it begins to boil. Once it is at a constant boil, stir consistently for 5 minutes (do not walk away or stop stirring because it will boil over). Turn off heat and remove from stovetop.Add marshmallow fluff, chocolate chips and chocolate bars. Stir until creamy (this took me 10 minutes). If marshmallows are not melting completely, place the pot back on the warm burner (do not turn it on, it should have enough residual heat) and beat with a wire whisk until lumps are gone.When smooth, pour into the 9 x 13 pan. Let cool. Once it has cooled, wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate no less than 1 hour (I usually give it 3 to 4 hours).Cut into 1-inch pieces. Makes about 120 pieces.

Sugar Cookie Greek Yogurt Gluten-Free Cheesecake
FOR THE CRUST:
3/4 cups Monkfruit
1/2 cups Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
1 Large Egg, At Room Temperature
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 cup Gluten-Free All Purpose Flour (180g, See Note)
1 teaspoon Cornstarch
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE CHEESECAKE:
2 packages (8 Oz. Size) Reduced Fat Cream Cheese
3/4 cups Monkfruit
3/4 cups Plain 2% Greek Yogurt
2 Large Eggs, At Room Temperature
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract

For the crust: Preheat oven to 350ºF.In a large bowl, beat monkfruit and softened butter until smooth and creamy. Add egg and vanilla and beat until well combined.In a small bowl, mix flour, cornstarch, baking powder and salt. Stir into the butter mixture until it forms a dough.Line a small plate with parchment paper and press 1/2 cup of the cookie dough onto it, about 1/4 inch thick. It doesn’t need to be perfect. Place the plate into the freezer.Press the remaining cookie dough flat into the bottom of an 9-inch spring form pan, and slightly up the sides, and bake until the edges are golden brown, about 20 minutes. Let cool to room temperature for 5 minutes and then place refrigerate for 10 minutes to really set the crust. Reduce the oven to 325ºF.For the cheesecake: While the crust sets in the refrigerator, beat together the softened cream cheese and monkfruit just until combined. You don’t want to add in too much air. Add Greek yogurt, eggs and vanilla and beat just until combined and the cream cheese is smooth.Once the crust has cooled for 10 minutes, pour cheesecake over top and gently smooth out.Remove the reserved 1/2 cup of cookie dough from the freezer and crumble it in small pieces all over the top of the cheesecake. You will cover the majority of the cheesecake.Bake until the cheesecake rises slightly and the outsides are set, and just a small circle in the center of the cheesecake is still jiggly, about 1 hour to 1 hour and 5 minutes. Turn off oven, crack open the oven door and leave the cheesecake in there for 15 minutes.Remove the cheesecake from the oven, gently run a very sharp knife around the sides of the pan. Let the cake stand until it reaches room temperature. Once it’s at room temperature, cover and refrigerate for at least 6 hours to overnight.After it’s set, slice and devour.Notes: I used Pillsbury brand and highly recommend using the same to ensure accurate results. Please weigh your flour for the same reason as gluten-free baking can be tricky.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Peppermint Chocolate Sandwich Cookie Truffles
1 package (14 1/3 Oz. Size) Chocolate Sandwich Cookies, Such As Oreos
3 Peppermint Candy Canes, Plus 1 Or 2 More For Garnish
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese
2 teaspoons Peppermint Extract
16 ounces, weight Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips

Crush sandwich cookies with a rolling pin (or in a food processor) until they are reduced to fine crumbs. Set aside.Use a food processor to pulverize candy canes into fine pieces. You are almost looking for a dust-like consistency but a few fine pieces are okay (you definitely don’t want someone to bite down on a large chunk of candy cane).Using a stand mixer or a handheld mixer, beat cream cheese and peppermint extract until blended. Beat in crushed cookies and candy cane.Form into 1-inch balls using a cookie scoop and place on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Refrigerate for at least 30 minutes.While the truffles are cooling in the refrigerator, prepare the peppermint garnish by crushing or food processing 1 or 2 additional candy canes into small pieces to sprinkle over the top.Right before the truffles are ready to come out of the refrigerator, melt the chocolate chips over a double boiler. Alternatively, you can melt the chocolate in a microwave in 30-second increments, stirring after each increment.Dip each truffle into the chocolate using 2 spoons to help the excess chocolate drip off. Place truffles on a parchment-lined baking sheet and immediately top with the peppermint garnish.Let the chocolate set before storing in an airtight container. Store in the refrigerator.Note: I ended up using one 12-ounce bag of chocolate chips plus about another 1/4 cup. You might be able to make it with just the 1 bag, but I’d recommend having more handy, just in case.

Pumpkin “Pudding”
3/4 cups Old Fashioned Oats
3/4 cups Unsweetened Almond Milk
3/4 cups Pumpkin Puree (not Pie Filling)
1 teaspoon Pumpkin Pie Spice
1 teaspoon Vanilla
3 Tablespoons Stevia In The Raw

Add all ingredients to blender or food processor (I use a Magic Bullet). Blend until smooth in texture. Divide between 1/2-cup ramekins and refrigerate until ready to eat.Notes: This recipe is pretty versatile in terms of the type of milk or sweetener you’d prefer to use. I’ve made it with 3 Medjool dates instead of Stevia. You could easily use sugar, honey, maple syrup, or an alternate sweetener as well. Top with chocolate chips or cacao nibs for a little something extra. In the fall, I stock up on pumpkins and make my own puree (numerous recipes available on TK). I freeze pumpkin puree in 1 1/2 cip portions and make a double recipe of pumpkin “pudding,” which my husband and I will enjoy for dessert for three nights. The quantity in the recipe fits in the large Magic Bullet cup. I find it’s best to layer the milk and pumpkin in the bottom and add oats last (closest to blade) so they don’t get stuck in the bottom of the cup when blending.

Chocolate Chess Pie
1-1/2 cup Sugar
5 Tablespoons (Heaping) Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1 can (5 Oz. Size) Evaporated Milk (not Sweetened Condensed)
4 Tablespoons Melted Salted Butter
2 whole Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 whole Unbaked Pie Shell

Preheat oven to 350°F.In a large bowl, whisk sugar, cocoa powder, evaporated milk, butter, eggs, and vanilla until smooth. Pour into prepared pie crust.Bake for 45 minutes or until edges are set and center of the pie is still slightly jiggly. Place the pie plate on a rack to cool slightly before serving.May be served hot, cold, or at room temperature. Enjoy!Recipe adapted from Handle the Heat.

Red Velvet Lava Cakes
FOR THE CAKES:
Coconut Cooking Spray, For The Muffin Tin
Granulated Sugar, As Needed For Dusting The Tin
6 ounces, weight Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
6 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/2 teaspoons Cocoa Powder
2 whole Eggs
2 whole Egg Yolks
1/3 cups All-purpose Flour
1 pinch Salt
1 teaspoon Red Get Food Coloring
FOR THE FILLING:
3 ounces, weight Mascarpone Cheese, Softened To Room Temperature
2 Tablespoons Dark Brown Sugar
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 teaspoon Red Gel Food Coloring
Powdered Sugar, As Needed For Dusting On Top.
Red Crystallized Sugar, As Needed For Sprinkling On Tops

Preheat oven to 425ºF and spray 6 wells of a muffin tin really well with the coconut cooking spray. Then dust the wells with granulated sugar to keep them from sticking. Combine the chocolate chips, coconut oil and cocoa powder in a large, heat proof bowl and set it over a small pot of gently simmering water on the stove. Let it melt together as you stir it until it is smooth and glossy. Take it off of the heat and let it cool for a minute. While it cools, thoroughly beat the eggs and egg yolks together. Then whisk them into the chocolate. Follow that by whisking in the flour, salt and food coloring until it is a smooth batter. Set it aside.Make the lava center mixture next. Stir the mascarpone, brown sugar, vanilla, and food coloring together until it is smooth. Get out a disposable piping bag and put it in a glass, folding the top over to keep it open. Scoop the lava filling into it to get it ready to pipe. Then take the custardy cake mixture and scoop a 1/4 cup of it into each of the 6 prepared muffin tin wells. Then snip the end of the piping bag and pipe a heaping tablespoon of the filling into the center of the cake mixture in each well. Bake the cakes for about 9 minutes, until the outside is crispy but the centers aren’t set.Let the cakes cool for 8–10 minutes, allowing them to pull away from the sides of the tins. Then place a small sheet tray over the muffin tin and invert the trays so that the cakes turn out right side up. Sprinkle the tops with lots of powdered sugar and red crystallized sugar. Serve them warm immediately. They can also be made ahead. Store them in the refrigerator until you want to serve them. Then microwave them for about 30 second to a minute on a microwave safe dish until warm. Enjoy!

Pumpkin Pie Bars
1 cup Old Fashioned Oats
1-1/2 cup Milk
1 cup Dates, Packed
1 cup Pumpkin Puree
2 whole Eggs
1 Tablespoon Ground Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 cups Mini Chocolate Chips

Add oats to blender. Blend on medium low until flour is formed, about 30–60 seconds. You may have to tap the sides to get the oats down into the blades. Dump oat flour out into a small bowl.Heat milk until steaming. Add dates and hot milk to blender. (Substitute 3/4 cup white sugar if you don’t have dates.) Blend on medium until dates are blended with the milk.Add pumpkin and eggs to blender. Blend on high until incorporated. Add oat flour, cinnamon, salt, and baking powder. Blend until incorporated.Pour batter into a greased 8×8 pan. Sprinkle chocolate chips across the top. Bake in a preheated oven at 350ºF for about 45 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the middle comes out clean.These are delicious warm or chilled, but they are definitely easier to cut cold.

Mango Gluten-Free Gingerbread Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
3/4 cups Coconut Sugar
4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil, Melted
6 Eggs At Room Temperature
1 cup Molasses
4 teaspoons Vanilla
3/4 cups Tapioca Starch (90g)
3/4 cups Plus 4 Teaspoons Coconut Flour (75g), Sifted, Divided
2 Tablespoons Ginger
4 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 Tablespoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Nutmeg
3/4 teaspoons Salt
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1 cup Mango, Diced (about 1 Large Mango)
FOR THE FROSTING:
2 cans (?? Oz. Size) Coconut Cream, Chilled Overnight
1/4 cups Honey
FOR THE MANGO ROSE GARNISH:
1-1/2 Large Mangos, Peeled (a Vegetable Peeler Works Great)

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line the bottom of two 8-inch cake pans with parchment paper, rubbing the sides with coconut oil. Set aside.Put coconut sugar and melted coconut oil in a bowl and blend with a handheld electric mixer.Separate the egg white and egg yolks, adding the yolks to the sugar mixture and the whites to a separate bowl to be used later.Add molasses and vanilla to the mixture and beat until well combined. Set aside. (See note.)Place tapioca starch, 3/4 cup coconut flour, ginger, cinnamon, baking soda, nutmeg, salt and ground cloves into a separate bowl and mix well. Set aside.Stir mango with remaining coconut flour and set aside.In a separate bowl, beat egg whites with clean beaters to stiff peaks, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed. Set aside.Slowly add the dry ingredients to the wet sugar/molasses mixture and beat, scraping down the sides as necessary. Gently fold in the egg whites to the mixture until no white streaks remain.Fold the mangos gently into the cake, making sure to scrape all the coconut flour in with the mangos. Split the cake batter between the two prepared cake pans and place them in the oven until a toothpick can be inserted in the middle and come out clean, about 29–30 minutes. Let cool in the pan completely.For the frosting: Open the cans of chilled coconut cream and scrape just the hard cream from the tops of the can, leaving the liquid at the bottom. Place the cream, along with honey, in a large bowl and beat with an electric hand mixer until smooth and creamy.Place one cake, bottom side up, on a cake pedestal. Spread 3/4 of the cream on top, and then gently place the other layer on top, bottom side up.Spread a thin layer of frosting over the entire cake. It doesn’t have to be beautiful, you just need to seal the crumbs. Place in the freezer until the cream feels just set, about 30 minutes to 1 hour (see note). Place the remaining cream in the refrigerator as well.Spread the rest of the cream over top of the cake and pipe some along the outside edge (your coconut cream needs to be pretty set to do this.) You can either then freeze the cake for another 30 minutes to set the frosting, or devour immediately.For the optional mango rose garnish, slice the mangos in half. Slice 2 of the halves lengthwise into very thin strips (about 1/8 inch or thinner.) Slice the remaining half very thinly crosswise.Starting with the longest pieces of mango, lay them around the outside of the cake, overlapping just slightly. Work your way into the center using the shorter pieces.Roll one long piece of mango and place it into the center to create the middle of the rose.Notes: As with all gluten free baking, please weigh your flour to ensure accurate results It’s important to add everything as written. If you add baking powder to molasses and let it sit before baking it, it will affect results. You also don’t want to leave beaten egg whites too long or they will deflate. So follow directions as written. Your crumb coat layer of frosting will turn a mottled brown from the cake. This is normal! The cake does also get mottled brown/white finish after it’s all decorated if you let it sit. So, if you want a pure white cake, frost it and serve immediately. However, both Mr. FFF and I thought it looked really pretty when it got mottled colors!

Apple Tart
120 grams Softened Butter, Divided
130 grams Powdered Sugar, Divided
300 grams Flour
1 Egg Yolk
2 Tablespoons Water
6 Apples
5 Tablespoons White Sugar, Divided
1 teaspoon Powdered Cinnamon
1 Lemon, Zest (Divided) And Juice
250 grams Mascarpone
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1 pinch Cornstarch

First, mix butter with 60 grams of powdered sugar until creamy. Add flour and mix well. Add egg yolk and water, make a dough ball and refrigerate for 30 minutes.In the meantime, grate apples. Add to low heat with 4 tablespoons of sugar and cook until soft. Then add powdered cinnamon and 1 teaspoon of grated lemon zest. Cook for 5–7 minutes more, remove from heat and set aside.Separately, mix mascarpone with remaining powdered sugar and vanilla. After that, for a fresh touch, make the lemon sauce. Squeeze the juice and add it to a saucepan with remaining sugar. Place on low heat and add remaining lemon zest. Cook until sugar melts, then strain. Return juice to heat and sprinkle some cornstarch and mix quickly. Cover the sauce and set aside.Take out the dough from the fridge. Dust the work surface with some flour and roll dough. I used an 18-cm tart mold. Bake crust at 180ºC (355ºF) then let it cool.Add apple mixture, then the mascarpone cream and lemon sauce. If possible, refrigerate tart for 1 hour before serving—it’s delicious!

Rich Caramel Pecan Pear Pie
FOR THE RICH SHORTCRUST PASTRY:
110 grams (or 1 Cup) Butter, Cold
225 grams (or 2 Cups) All-purpose Flour
1 Tablespoon Caster Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Almond Extract (optional)
1 Egg Yolk
4 teaspoons Ice Cold Water
FOR THE FILLING:
2 Medium Ripe Pears, Peeled, Cored And Sliced Into Lengthways
60 grams (or 1/4 Cup) Butter
100 grams (or 1/2 Cup) Brown Sugar
1 Tablespoon Golden Syrup
150 milliliters (or 3/4 Cup) Cream, Divided
2 Medium Eggs, Beaten
125 grams (or 1 Cup) Pecans, Roughly Chopped

For the shortcut pastry: Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F). You will need a 23cm (9 inch) pie dish.In a large mixing bowl, rub butter into flour with your hands until you have what resembles fine crumbs. Stir in sugar, almond extract (optional) and egg yolk. Add ice water and mix until pastry comes together and can be formed into a ball. You don’t want it too wet or too dry, so add extra flour or water accordingly.Place the ball of pastry into a sealable plastic bag and let it rest in the fridge for 20 minutes. Roll the pastry out on a clean, floured surface. You want it to be about 2mm thick.Line pie dish with the pastry then place a piece of wax proof paper over the pastry and weigh it down with some rice or raw beans. Bake the pastry for 10–12 minutes. Remove the paper and bake for another 5 minutes until light golden. Remove from the oven and set aside.For the filling: Place pears in a medium saucepan with enough water to almost cover the pears, and gently simmer for 15 minutes until tender. Drain and dry the pears with kitchen paper.Melt butter, brown sugar and syrup in a saucepan until no granules remain, then boil for 2 minutes. Pour in 2/3 of the cream and simmer for 4 minutes. Add remaining cream, stir and remove from heat. Cool for 12 minutes before beating in eggs and pecans.Spoon the mixture into the baked pastry case. Add pears in a circle design (fat side at the edges, thin side to the middle). Bake for 30 minutes until the top looks set but still a little wobbly. Cool for at least 20 minutes before serving.Serve with whipped cream or ice cream and enjoy!Notes: Work fairly quickly with the shortcrust pastry, as the aim is to keep all the ingredients as cold as possible which gives the pastry a nice flaky texture! (You can use storebought crust if you’re pushed for time.) This recipe can be used to make mini pecan pie tarts and pecan bars! For a fun variation, try this pie with walnuts and apples.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Aunt Rocky’s Peppermint Mocha Cookies (Low Carb, Gluten-Free)
2 Tablespoons Refined Coconut Oil (No Coconut Taste), Melted
2 Large Eggs
1 teaspoon Peppermint Extract
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2/3 cups FineNaturals Ultra Dark Unsweetened Cacao (See Note)
10 Tablespoons Confectioner's Swerve (powdered Erythritol)
2 Tablespoons Bobs Red Mill Flax Meal
1 Tablespoon Instant Coffee Crystals Or Powder
1 dash Salt
2 Tablespoons LC Foods Dark Chocolate Chips (Sugar Free, Dairy Free)
2 Tablespoons Chopped Pecans (Omit If Nut Free)
Crushed Sugar Free Peppermint Candies, For Decoration (optional, See Note)

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line 2 cookie sheets with parchment or silicone liners, set aside.Melt coconut oil in medium glass mixing bowl. Add eggs, peppermint extract, and vanilla, and beat with whisk until frothy. Add remaining ingredients, stir until combined. Batter should be like a thick brownie batter consistency.Use a tablespoon cookie scoop to place dough onto parchment-lined cookie sheets. Use wet fingertips to flatten cookie to desired size and shape. They don’t spread much at all, so the shape you make is the shape you’ll get.Bake 10 minutes. Remove from oven, and sprinkle the crushed peppermint candy on top of each cookie. Return to oven for 1 to 2 minutes to assure the candy melts just enough to adhere to the cookies.Let cool on cookie sheet for about 5 minutes until they set, then transfer to wire rack to finish cooling. Cookies will dry out as they cool. I recommend allowing to air dry on rack for 24 hours. Store on the counter in an air tight container for up to a week.Notes: If you use a different cocoa/cacao powder, add the carbs for the brand you use. FineNaturals has zero net carbs (ordered from Amazon). I buy sugar free peppermint candies at local drug stores during the holiday season and store them in my pantry to use for holiday baking. If you leave the cookies out on your cooling rack for about 24 hours, they will dry out, but still be a soft cookie. These travel well in a tight fitting container.Nutrition estimates are calculated per serving with My Fitness Pal’s online recipe analyzer. If you make any changes to the ingredients, your results may differ. The recipe is stored there and available to MFP users for logging in their food diaries. I do not include sugar alcohols or liquid sucralose in my nutrition counts, as they are not absorbed by the body and rate zero on the glycemic index.Calories 32, Total Fat 2 g, Saturated Fat 1 g, Sodium 6 mg, Potassium 6 mg, Total Carbohydrate 2 g, Dietary Fiber 1 g, Net Carbs 1 g, Sugars 0 g, Protein 1 g. Macros: 70% fat, 15% protein, 15% carbs.© December 3, 2017 Roxana Lopez for Aunt Rocky’sFor more low lchf/keto recipes and cooking tips, look for Aunt Rocky’s Low Carb Recipes & Tips Group on Facebook, or follow me on Pinterest at auntrockyI don’t get any commission or kickback for products I use or mention in my recipes. Brand names are included only to assure a similar outcome to mine, and more accurately assess nutritional estimates, which are based on exact ingredients I used.

Classic Dutch Apple Pie (Vegan)
FOR THE CRUST:
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/3 cups Plus 1 Tablespoon Vegan Butter, Cold And Cubed
3 Tablespoons Ice Water
FOR THE FILLING:
8 cups Sliced Granny Smith Apples (about 7-8 Apples)
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice
FOR THE STREUSEL:
1 cup All-purpose Flour
2/3 cups Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Vegan Butter
1 Tablespoon Granulated Sugar

For the crust: Sift flour and salt. Add vegan butter and toss to coat (you don’t need to break it up, just make sure the butter chunks are covered with the flour). Add ice water and stir gently until dough begins to gather into a ball. You may not need all the water, so start with 2 tablespoons and add only if your dough is still dry and crumbly.Wrap the dough in plastic and chill 1 hour.Roll the dough out on a floured surface, then envelope-fold the dough in 3 rotations. To envelope-fold, roll out the dough into a rectangle. Fold the right 1/3 of the dough across, then fold the left 1/3 over that. Rotate the entire rectangle 90 degrees and repeat two times.Rewrap the dough and chill an additional 2 hours.For the pie filling: Preheat oven to 400ºF.Toss the apple slices with sugar, flour, cinnamon, and lemon juice.Roll the pie dough out and fit it to a 9-inch pie tin. Trim and crimp the edges. Pour the apple slices into the pie dough.For the streusel: Mix flour and brown sugar, then break up the cold butter and mix well until it resembles coarse crumbs. Pour the streusel over the top of the pie, being careful that it doesn’t slide off the sides. Sprinkle the top of the pie with granulated sugar.Bake for 45–55 minutes until golden brown and bubbling.

Classic Berry Apricot Almond Tarts
FOR THE RICH SHORTCRUST PASTRY:
110 grams (or 1 Cup) Butter, Cold
255 grams (or 2 Cups) All-purpose Flour
1 Tablespoon Caster Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Almond Essence
1 Egg Yolk
4 teaspoons Ice Cold Water
FOR THE ALMOND FILLING:
1/4 cups Soft Butter
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cups Sugar
2 Tablespoons Cake Flour
1 teaspoon Almond Essence
1 teaspoon Vanilla Essence
3 Large Eggs
1-1/4 cup Almond Flour
3 Tablespoons Apricot Jam, Heated In The Microwave For 10 Seconds
1/2 cups Raw Flaked Almonds
FOR THE GLAZE:
1/2 cups Icing Sugar
1 Tablespoon Milk
Strawberries, Blueberries Or Raspberries, For Garnish

For the shortcut pastry: Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F). You will need 6 mini tart pans or 1 x 23cm (9 inch) tart pan.In a large mixing bowl, rub the butter into the flour with your hands until you have what resembles fine crumbs. Stir in sugar, almond essence and egg yolk. Add ice water and mix until pastry comes together and can be formed into a ball. You don’t want it too wet or too dry, so add extra flour or water accordingly.Place the ball of pastry into a sealable plastic bag and let it rest in the fridge for 20 minutes. Slice pastry into 6 equal pieces and roll pastry pieces out on a clean, floured surface. You want them to be about 2mm thick.Line mini tart tins, prick all over with a fork, then freeze the crusts for 15 minutes. Bake the crusts for about 10–12 minutes until light golden. Remove from the oven and cool while you make the filling.For the filling: Beat butter, salt, sugar, flour, and essences with an electric mixer. Beat in eggs, then add almond flour, stirring just to combine. Spread bases of the crusts with a thin layer of apricot jam, then spread the almond filling into the crusts and top with a scattering of flaked almonds.Bake the tarts for 15 minutes, until their tops are lightly browned. Remove from the oven, and cool in the pans.For the glaze: Stir sugar and milk until smooth. Drizzle glaze over the cooled tarts, and top with fresh blueberries, strawberries or raspberries.Notes: To make one large tart, simply line a 23cm (9 inch) fluted tart pan with the pastry. Prick all over with a fork and freeze for 15 minutes. Bake crust for 18 to 22 minutes, spread with apricot jam, add the filling, then bake the filled tart for another 35 to 40 minutes, until the top is golden and set. If you have pastry left over, place it in a resealable bag and freeze it for another baking day!

Paleo Coconut Lemon Cake
4 whole Eggs
5 Tablespoons Honey
2 Tablespoons Vegetable Oil Of Your Choice
2 Tablespoons Nut Butter Of Your Choice
2 whole Lemons, Zest And Juice
1/3 cups Coconut Flour
1/2 Tablespoons Baking Soda

Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F).Break eggs and set 2 egg whites aside.Combine 2 egg whites, all the egg yolks, honey, oil, nut butter, lemon zest and juice.Mix coconut flour with baking soda. Start adding the flour little by little to the wet ingredients while you keep whisking.Use a hand mixer to beat the reserved egg whites into a foam. Add little by little to the batter and fold in carefully using a silicone spatula.Transfer mixture into a tray covered with baking paper. Bake for about 20–22 minutes. Let cool completely before cutting.

Chocolate Chip Muffins
220 grams Flour
1 Tablespoon Baking Powder
6 whole Medium Eggs
100 grams Sugar
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Unsweetened Cocoa Powder (optional)
100 grams Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 180°C (365°F). Prepare muffin tray with muffin baking cups. Set aside.Measure flour in a measuring cup or on a scale. Mix baking powder into the flour.In a mixing bowl, break eggs. Add sugar. Beat until light yellow, about 5–10 minutes. Be patient! Add vanilla extract. If you want your muffins super chocolatey, mix cocoa powder in with the eggs.Carefully fold in flour mixture. If the batter is too hard to stir, add a little bit of water, alternating between adding flour and water. Finally, fold in chocolate chips.Spoon pastry into muffin holders, about 2 or 3 spoonfuls each. Pop muffin tray into preheated oven for 15–20 minutes.

Chocolate Peppermint Donuts
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1/2 cups Packed Light Brown Sugar
1/3 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
3/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 Large Egg
1/2 cups Milk, Any Kind (I Used 2%)
1/4 cups Melted Coconut Oil
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE GLAZE:
1 cup Powdered Sugar
1/3 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
1/4 Tablespoons Peppermint Extract
Pinch Of Salt
1-1/2 cup Crushed Candy Canes, For Sprinkling

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Lightly spray two 6-count donut pans with nonstick cooking spray. Set aside.In a large bowl, combine flour, brown sugar, cocoa powder, salt, baking powder, and baking soda. Set aside.In a medium bowl, whisk egg, milk, coconut oil, and vanilla extract until smooth. Slowly pour wet ingredients into the flour mixture, stirring until just combined. Batter will be very thick.Spoon mixture into a large Ziploc bag and cut tip of bottom corner. Pipe mixture into prepared donut pans. Bake for 8–10 minutes, or until donuts are slightly firm. Remove from oven and cool completely before adding glaze.To make the glaze, whisk powdered sugar, whipping cream, peppermint extract, and salt until smooth.Take each donut and dunk halfway into glaze, then sprinkle with crushed candy canes. Enjoy!

Gingerbread Cookie Marshmallows
3-1/2 packages (1/4 Oz. Packets) Unflavored Gelatin
1 cup Cold Water, Divided
2 cups White Sugar (granulated Or Cane)
1/2 cups Light Corn Syrup
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1-1/2 teaspoon Ground Ginger (This Adds A Good Bit Of Spice, You Can Use Less To Taste)
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves
2 Large Egg Whites
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
1 cup Finely Ground Gingersnap Cookie Crumbs (this Will Take About 27 Small Gingersnaps)
1 cup Powdered Sugar, Divided, Plus A Little More For Dusting Pan

Spray (or oil) bottom and sides of a 9×13 rectangular metal baking pan. Dust bottom and sides with some powdered sugar.In the bowl of a stand mixer, sprinkle gelatin over 1/2 cup cold water, and let stand to soften while you make sugar mixture.In a 3-quart heavy saucepan set over low heat, cook white sugar, corn syrup, remaining 1/2 cup cold water, and salt, stirring with a rubber spatula or wooden spoon until sugar is dissolved. Once sugar is dissolved, increase heat to medium and bring mixture to a boil. Allow to boil without stirring, until a candy or digital thermometer registers 240°F, about 12 minutes (soft ball stage).Remove from heat and pour over gelatin mixture. Whisk until gelatin is dissolved.Using the whisk attachment, beat mixture on high speed until it is white, thick, and nearly tripled in volume, about 6 minutes. 3 minutes (halfway) in, add ground ginger, cinnamon, and cloves.In a separate medium-sized bowl (I use my handheld mixer with the little whisk attachment, but regular beaters should work as well), beat egg whites until they just hold stiff peaks. Beat egg whites and vanilla extract into gelatin mixture until just combined, scraping down sides of bowl once. Add ground cookie crumbs and beat until just combined (you may want to scrape sides of bowl once).Pour mixture into prepared pan and and sift 1/4 cup powdered sugar evenly over the top. Chill, uncovered, at least 3 hours until firm, or up to one day.When ready to cut, run a thin knife around the edges of pan and invert pan onto a large cutting board (I actually just cut the shapes in the pan). Lifting up one corner of inverted pan, use your fingers to loosen marshmallow and ease onto cutting board.Use a gingerbread-shaped cookie cutter (or whatever shape you desire—you can also use a large sharp knife, scissors, or pizza cutter) to cut marshmallows into gingerbread men. Be sure to spray cookie cutter (or whatever tool you’re using to cut with) with cooking spray as needed! If you cut out shapes, you will have leftover scraps—cut those into small squares (the more, the merrier!).Sift remaining ¾ cup powdered sugar into a large container with lid; you may need to use 2 containers. (You might need to use a little bit more than the remaining ¾ cup powdered sugar, especially if you use two containers.)Place marshmallows into container(s), cover with lid, and give a good shake to coat marshmallows with powdered sugar. Shake excess powdered sugar off marshmallows before removing from container.Enjoy plain, with hot chocolate, or as decoration!

No-Bake Cheesecake with Apricots
7 whole Apricots
100 grams Digestive Biscuits
100 grams Butter
600 grams Cream Cheese (Philadelphia)
1 Tablespoon Honey, Agave Or Your Sweetener Of Choice

Before preparing the ingredients, prepare a medium size round cake tin. Cover it with tinfoil.Peel and slice apricots. Put in a small saucepan with 5 spoonfuls of water. Bring to a boil. Cook for about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally.Meanwhile, put biscuits in a bowl and crush into crumbs. If butter isn’t softened, heat in the microwave (400W) for about 20 seconds.Mix soft butter with biscuit crumbs until well-combined. Spread mixture into the cake tin until evenly flat. Press crust down as much as you can.Beat cream cheese and honey until soft. (You can add a dash of vanilla if desired.) Spoon cream in the middle of the crust and spread outwards to the edges. Decorate with cooked apricots.Let set in the fridge overnight.

Oven-Baked Apple Chips
5 Apples (I Used Granny Smith And Fuji, But You Can Use Whatever You'd Like)
2 Tablespoons Sugar
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice
1 teaspoon Cinnamon

Preheat oven to 200ºF.Use a mandoline on the thinnest setting to slice the apples (see note). Remove the seeds as you go.Toss apple slices with sugar, lemon juice and cinnamon in a medium bowl.Place apple slices on parchment-lined baking sheets (or silicone-lined baking sheets) in a single layer. It’s okay if they slightly overlap, but you want most of them in a single layer.Bake for 1 hour. Flip the apple slices over and bake for an additional 1/2 to 1 hour. The amount of time needed will depend on the the thickness of the apples. The apples will not be completely crisp until they cool, but you want them to feel mostly dry to the touch.Once completely cooled, store in an airtight container.Notes: You can either core the apples prior to cutting, or leave the core in and remove the seeds as they are sliced. I did not core my apples and it worked great. If the apple chips begin to get soggy, throw them back in the oven at 200ºF for a few minutes until they crisp up again.

Lemon Ricotta Poppy Seed Cookies
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 pinch Salt
2 cups Granulated Sugar
1 stick Butter, Softened
1 container (15 Oz. Size) Whole Milk Ricotta Cheese
1 whole Lemon, Zested
4 teaspoons Fresh Lemon Juice, From The Zested Lemon
2 whole Eggs
1 Tablespoon Poppy Seeds

Preheat oven to 350°F and line 2 sheet trays with silicone mats or parchment paper.Combine flour, baking powder and salt in a bowl and whisk to aerate. Set aside.Get out a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and combine sugar, butter, ricotta and lemon zest in its bowl. Beat thoroughly until pale and fluffy. Add lemon juice, followed by eggs. Finally, turn speed to low and slowly add dry ingredients until you have a soft dough. Turn off mixer and switch to a spatula to fold in poppy seeds.Use a 1 1/2 inch cookie scoop to scoop perfect mounds of the dough right onto the prepared cookie sheets. I fit 15 on each of my two sheets for the first batch. Bake for 15–20 minutes, until set and slightly golden around the edges. Let cool for 5 minutes or so, then transfer them to a rack to finish cooling. Let the trays cool for another 10 minutes or so, then fill them up again for the second batch. This recipe yielded 55 cookies total using that cookie scoop, so the second batch had 15 on one sheet and 10 on the other. Once the second batch bakes and cools, seal them in containers and serve them as needed! Enjoy!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Strawberry Jaffa Cakes
1 box (1 Oz. Size) Strawberry Gelatin Powder
1 cup Boiling Water
6 whole Ice Cubes
1 ounces, weight Granulated Sugar
1 whole Egg
1 ounces, weight Self-Rising Flour
5 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate, Broken Into Small Pieces

First, make the gelatin so it can set. Pour gelatin powder into a heatproof bowl and pour boiling water over it. Stir it well until powder dissolves. Then add ice cubes so that they melt in and cool everything down. Give it a final stir, then pour mixture into an 8 x 8 baking dish. Put it in the freezer to completely set for about 1 1/2 hours. It should still be somewhat pliable but not really jiggly. Hardening it in the freezer also helps with cutting so that it’s cleaner.While the jello sets, make the sponge for the cake part. Preheat oven to 350ºF and spray 10 wells of a 12-well muffin tin liberally with cooking spray. Combine the sugar and egg in a bowl and whip them together for 3–4 minutes, until the mixture is really pale and airy. It should expand too. Then switch to a spatula and gently fold in the flour just until it disappears. Scoop a tablespoon of the dough into the wells of the tin, there will be enough for 1Make sure they are even, then bake the cakes for 8–9 minutes. Let them cool for a couple of minutes in the tin, they should pull away from the sides. Then put them on a rack to finish cooling completely.Now it’s time for assembly. Take the hardened jello and use a 2-inch round cutter to cut 10 discs out of it. Place one on top of each little cake. Then put the chocolate in a microwave safe bowl and microwave it for a minute. Stir it, then microwave it for another 30 seconds so that it is completely melted. Spoon the chocolate over each cake, trying to be as neat as you can. Let the chocolate completely harden, then serve the cakes with a yummy hot beverage! Enjoy!

Caramel-Toffee 7-Layer Cookies
1/2 cups Salted Butter, Melted
1-1/2 cup Graham Cracker Crumbs
1 cup Caramel Bits
1 cup Bittersweet Chocolate Chips
1 cup Toffee Bits
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
1 cup Sliced Almonds
1 pinch Sea Salt, Such As Fleur De Sel

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Lightly grease a 11 x 7 baking pan.Stir together melted butter and graham cracker crumbs. Press into prepared pan.Add the other ingredients in order: caramel bits, chocolate chips, and toffee bits. Pour sweetened condensed milk over the top. Add the almonds. Sprinkle on a pinch or two of salt.Bake for 25–30 minutes. Remove from the oven and cool on a wire rack.

Dark-Chocolate-Frosted Almond Butter Chickpea Blondies
1 can (15 Oz. Size) Chickpeas, Drained And Rinsed
1/2 cups Creamy Almond Butter
1/3 cups Maple Syrup
3 Tablespoons Coconut Oil, Plus Extra For Greasing
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
3 Tablespoons Oat Flour
1 teaspoon Sea Salt
FOR THE FROSTING:
2/3 cups Dark Chocolate Chips
1/2 cups Creamy Almond Butter

Preheat oven to 350ºF and grease a 8×4 baking pan with coconut oil.Toss chickpeas, almond butter, and maple syrup in a blender and pulse until smooth. Add coconut oil, vanilla extract, oat flour, and sea salt and pulse again until smooth. Be sure to scrape down the sides of the blender.Pour batter into prepared baking pan and use a spatula to spread (it will be thick). Bake for 20–22 minutes, or until golden brown on top and a toothpick comes out clean. Remove from oven and cool completely.Prepare the frosting by melting chocolate chips either in the microwave or using a double-boiler. Stir in the almond butter and cool slightly.Pour the frosting over the cooled blondies and refrigerate until the frosting is firm (about 2–3 hours). Slice and serve. Enjoy!

Peppermint Gluten-Free Chewy Sugar Cookies
1 cup Spinach, Very Tightly Packed
1/2 cups Water
1/2 cups Butter Or Ghee, Softened To Room Temperature
1/2 cups Monkfruit
1 Large Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 teaspoon Peppermint Extract
1 cup Gluten-Free All Purpose Flour (180g, See Note)
2 teaspoons Cornstarch
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
4 Tablespoons Mini Dairy-free Chocolate Chips, Divided

Line 2 cookie sheets with parchment paper and set aside. Preheat oven to 350ºF.Place spinach and water into a medium pot and bring to a boil on high heat. Once boiling, transfer the water and spinach into a small food processor (mine is 3 cups) and puree until smooth. Strain into a small bowl and set the green water aside, discarding the chunky spinach.Using an electric mixer, beat butter (or ghee) and monkfruit in a large mixing bowl until light and fluffy. Add egg, vanilla extract, peppermint extract, and 1/4 cup of the green water, discarding the rest. Beat until well mixed—it will be soupy from the green water.In a separate medium-sized bowl, combine flour, cornstarch, baking powder and salt. Slow stir the flour mixture into the butter mixture, until it forms a slightly wet dough. Stir in 3 tablespoons of the chocolate chips.Use a cookie scoop to drop the dough onto the prepared cookie sheet, in lightly heaping 1-tablespoon-sized balls, pressing out about 1/2 inch thick. Press remaining chocolate chips into the tops of each cookie.Bake until they are just set and the edges just begin to harden and turn lightly brown, about 12–14 minutes. Let the cookies cool on the baking sheet for 5 minutes, then transfer to a wire rack to completely cool. Devour.Notes: I used Pillsbury brand gluten-free flour, and I recommend doing the same. And, as always, make sure you weigh your flour to ensure accurate results. The cookies will feel very soft and underdone, but they firm up a lot once cooled. You don’t want to over-bake them, as you want them thick and chewy!

7-Layer Cookies
1/2 cups Salted Butter, Melted
1-1/2 cup Graham Cracker Crumbs
1 cup Sweetened Shredded Coconut
1 cup Semisweet Chocolate Chips
1 cup Butterscotch Chips
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
1 cup Pecans

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Lightly grease a 11 x 7 baking pan.Stir together melted butter and graham cracker crumbs. Press into prepared pan.Add the other ingredients in order: coconut, chocolate chips, and butterscotch chips. Pour sweetened condensed milk over the top. Add the pecans.Bake for 25 minutes. Remove from the oven and cool on a wire rack. Place pan in the refrigerator and serve cold.

Double Chocolate Mousse
2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream, Divided
1 cup Dark Chocolate Chips
4 Tablespoons Chocolate Syrup
1 Tablespoon Chocolate Shards

In a large mixing bowl, take 1/2 cup heavy whipping cream and beat until stiff peaks. Keep in the refrigerator.In a heavy bottom saucepan, simmer remaining heavy cream just until slight bubbles appear at the corners, stirring constantly. Keep an eye on it so that it does not burn at the bottom.Remove from heat and put the hot cream into another bowl containing the chocolate chips. Set aside for few minutes.After 5–6 minutes, stir chocolate and cream mixture until everything is well combined. Keep ganache mixture in the refrigerator for a few hours.Remove the chilled ganache and start whisking until stiff peaks form.Take glass serving bowls and drizzle strips of chocolate syrup onto the glass bowls to make them pretty. Fill half the bowl with the chocolate mousse mixture and then 1/4 of the bowl with plain cream. Garnish the top with chocolate shards and serve chilled.

Chocolate-Peanut-Butter 7-Layer Cookies
1/2 cups Salted Butter, Melted
1-1/2 cup Chocolate Graham Cracker Crumbs
1 cup Rice Krispies Cereal
1 cup Semisweet Chocolate Chips
1 cup Peanut Butter Chips
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
2 Tablespoons Smooth Peanut Butter
1 cup Chopped Salted Peanuts

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Lightly grease a 11 x 7 baking pan.Stir together melted butter and graham cracker crumbs. Press into prepared pan.Add the other ingredients in order: cereal, chocolate chips, and peanut butter chips. Stir sweetened condensed milk and peanut butter together. Pour over the top. Add the peanuts.Bake for 25 minutes. Remove from the oven and cool on a wire rack.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Gluten-Free Fudge Cake
16 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
6 ounces, weight Bittersweet Or Dark Chocolate
4 whole Large Eggs, Room Temperature
1-1/2 cup Sweetened, Condensed Milk
1-1/2 cup Almond Meal Or Almond Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Fine Salt
1/4 cups Hot Espresso (or See Note Below)
Non-melting Confectioner's Sugar, For Dusting (optional)

Preheat oven to 350ºF and place rack in center position. Line bottom of a 9-inch springform pan with parchment paper and spray pan with Baker’s Joy.In 30-second bursts in the microwave, slowly melt butter and chocolate together, stirring between bursts. Set aside until needed. If your microwave is very powerful, decrease power to 50%, or you can melt the butter and chocolate together in a double boiler over simmering water.In the jar of a blender, combine eggs and sweetened condensed milk on low speed until combined. Add chocolate/butter mixture; mix on low speed until combined. Add almond meal, baking soda, baking powder, salt, and espresso; mix on low until combined.Pour batter into prepared pan and bake for 40 minutes until a toothpick inserted in the center of the cake tests done (a few crumbs sticking to the toothpick are ok). Cool cake in pan on a rack for 1 hour. Cover with plastic and chill for at least 2 hours.Remove sides of springform pan and slide cake off of parchment base. Use a hot knife to cut cake into 16 slices. Leftovers should be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator. Serve dusted with non-melting confectioners sugar, if desired.Note: To make espresso, combine 1/4 cup boiling water with 1/2 teaspoon high quality espresso powder.Recipe adapted from Pati Jinich.

German Apple Almond Cake
4 whole Medium Apples, Peeled, Cored
1 whole Lemon, Juiced
7 ounces, weight Almond Paste
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
14 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Melted And Cooled, Plus More For Pan
4 whole Large Eggs, At Room Temperature
1/2 teaspoons Orange Zest
1/2 teaspoons Almond Extract
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 cup Plus 3 Tablespoons All-purpose Flour
1/2 cups Plus 1 Tablespoon Cornstarch
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons (heaping) Kosher Salt
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/4 cups Apricot Jam

Preheat oven to 350°F. Butter a 9-inch round springform pan. Line bottom with parchment and butter again.Slice half of the apples into 1/3 inch thick slices. Cut the remaining apples into ½ inch cubes. Keep separate. Toss with lemon juice.Grate almond paste on a box grater into the bowl of a standing mixer. Add sugar and beat, using the paddle attachment, until beginning to look paste-like. Drizzle in melted butter while slowly mixing. Increase speed to combine completely.Incorporate eggs one at a time, beating over medium speed. Beat in orange zest and extracts until combined.In another bowl, whisk together dry ingredients (flour, cornstarch, baking powder, salt, cinnamon). This can be done while the sugar and almond paste are mixing. Incorporate dry ingredients into wet ingredients in 3 additions. Do not over-mix.Gently fold in chopped apples. Transfer to the prepared springform pan. Starting in the center and working outwards, shingle the sliced apples on top of the cake in a spiral pattern.Bake for approximately 1 hour and 10 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean.While cake is still hot, warm the apricot jam for about 20–30 seconds in the microwave, or until fluid. Push through a sieve to remove any chunks. Brush warm jam over top of cake.After about 10 minutes, run a knife along the sides of the cake and remove the ring of the springform pan. Cool completely over a wire rack. Remove bottom of springform pan and parchment. Serve with whipped cream or ice cream, if desired. Enjoy.

Peach Galette
FOR THE CRUST:
2-1/2 cups Flour
1 teaspoon Salt
1 cup Butter
6 Tablespoons Water
Cream, For Brushing On Crust (optional)
FOR THE FILLING:
2 whole Peaches
2 Tablespoons Sugar, Plus More To Sprinkle On Crust If Desired
1 teaspoon Cornstarch
1/4 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Fresh Lemon Juice

Combine flour, cubed butter, salt and ice water in a food processor and blitz until it resembles sand. You’ll want to check to see if you have enough moisture in the dough by pinching a small bit in your fingers and making sure it holds together. If it doesn’t, add another tablespoon of ice water, pulse a few more times and check again. You want it to be as dry as possible but still able to form a small ball when you pinch it—that’s what will give you a nice, light, flaky crust.Dump dough out onto some plastic wrap or into a plastic bag and squeeze it together just so it forms a large ball. Try to shape it into a disk about 1 inch thick. It makes it much easier to roll out if you have the dough in this disk shape before you refrigerate it. Refrigerate for 20 minutes.For the filling, toss peach slices with sugar, cornstarch, vanilla and lemon juice.Divide dough into two sections and roll each out until about 1/8 inch thick. Lay on a parchment-lined baking tray and arrange sliced peaches in the center of each crust. You can make a nice layered spiral, or just dump ‘em in there. Either way, it’ll be delicious. Fold over the edges of the dough to overlap the peaches by about 1 inch. You can then brush the crust with a bit of cream and sprinkle the edges with some sugar.Bake for about 25–30 minutes at 350ºF, or until golden brown and peaches are bubbling.Let galettes cool slightly before serving. I recommend topping with some vanilla bean ice cream, if you’re into that sorta thing. Eat up!

Peppermint Mocha Poke Cake
1 box (about 15 To 18 Oz. Size) White Cake Mix
1/2 cups Oil
1-1/2 cup Milk, Divided
3 Eggs
1/2 cups Peppermint Mocha Creamer
4 ounces, weight Chocolate Pudding Mix
8 ounces, weight Frozen Whipped Topping, Thawed
2 ounces, weight Peppermint Bark Chopped

For the cake: Mix white cake mix, oil, 1 cup milk, and eggs. Transfer batter to a 13 x 9 greased pan then put into a preheated 350ºF oven. Bake for 34–38 minutes. Take out to cool for 10–15 minutes.Once cake has cooled down a bit, it’s time to poke it. Take a straw and insert to make holes all over the cake.For the peppermint mocha pudding: With an electric mixer, blend remaining milk, peppermint mocha creamer and chocolate pudding mix until completely blended, around 3 minutes. Pour pudding over top of cake and use a spatula to spread evenly while pushing the pudding into the poke marks.Refrigerate to let the pudding set, around 2–3 hours.Just before serving, frost with whipped topping. Chop up the peppermint bark and sprinkle over the top.

Homemade Chocolate Pudding
1 cup Sugar
1/2 cups Baking Cocoa
1/4 cups Cornstarch
1/2 teaspoons Salt
4 cups Whole Milk
2 Tablespoons Butter
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
Whipped Cream, To Serve (optional)

In a medium-sized pan, add dry ingredients: sugar, cocoa powder, cornstarch and salt. Whisk to combine. Move the pot to the stove top.Measure out half of the milk and whisk it into the dry ingredients. Turn stove on to medium heat. Add remaining milk, butter and vanilla.While heating, keep whisking. The lumps at the top will eventually disappear, so be patient. Keep stirring until pudding starts to thicken—this takes about 5–8 minutes, so be patient as you need to stay and whisk the pudding the whole time so the bottom doesn’t burn.When you can dip a spoon into the pudding and it coats the back of the spoon, you can take it off heat and transfer into serving bowls.Serve warm or chilled. With or without whipped cream. Enjoy!Notes: For no skin, cut wax paper to fit or plastic wrap pressed down on the top to prevent the skin from forming. If eating warm, give the pudding at least 10 minutes to cool down and firm up a little. If you want it cold, put it in the fridge for about half an hour.

Pumpkin Pie Pops
1 cup Vanilla Greek Yogurt
1 cup Milk (any Kind)
1 Banana
1/2 cups Pure Pumpkin
2 Scoops Vital Proteins® Collagen Peptides
1 teaspoon Pumpkin Pie Spice
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
2 Tablespoons Honey Or Maple Syrup
1/2 cups Crushed Graham Crackers
1 Tablespoon Unsalted Butter, melted

In a blender, add yogurt, milk, banana, pumpkin, collagen peptides, pumpkin pie spice, cinnamon, and honey. Blend until smooth.Pour mixture into 8 to 10 pop molds, leaving about a 1/2 inch of space at the top for the graham cracker crust. Set aside.In a small bowl, stir graham cracker crumbs and melted butter together until combined and crumbly. Spoon onto the tops of each popsicle mold. Insert popsicle stick into each mold and place into freezer. Freeze for at least 3 hours, or until hardened.

Chocolate Fudge Sauce
50 grams Butter
397 milliliters Condensed Milk
100 grams Milk Chocolate

Melt butter in a pan over medium heat. Add condensed milk and heat until warmed through. Add chocolate and stir until melted and silky. Enjoy!

Alfajores Cookies
FOR THE DULCE DE LECHE:
4 cups Whole Milk
1 cup Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
FOR THE COOKIES:
1/2 cups Butter
1/3 cups Sugar
2 Egg Yolks
1 Tablespoon Amaretto, Or Brandy
1/4 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Cornstarch
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 cups Powdered Sugar, For Dusting On Finished Cookies

For the dulce de leche: Put all ingredients in a pot and turn on medium heat. Keep an eye on it, as the milk may get too hot and boil over. Cook over heat for about 2 hours. The milk will reduce and caramelize. Once mixture looks like a rich caramel color, remove from heat and pour into a heat proof bowl. Very important: Let it chill for 2 hours before use! The dulce de leche will firm up as it cools. For the cookies: Preheat oven to 350ºF (176ºC). Start by putting the room temperature butter into a mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Turn to medium. Slowly add sugar, and cream butter and sugar together. Add egg yolks and continue to cream together, scraping down sides of the bowl. Add Amaretto (or brandy, whichever you choose). Sift all the dry ingredients together (except powdered sugar, which will be used for dusting finished cookies). Add dry ingredients in three batches, scraping down sides of bowl after every addition. After dry ingredients have been incorporated, dough should come together. Take dough out, wrap in plastic, and let chill for 30 minutes. After dough has rested, roll out on a flat surface lightly dusted with flour. Roll dough to about 1/8 inch. Punch out small circles (I used a fluted 1 1/2 inch cookie cutter) and place on a cookie sheet fitted with some parchment paper. Place cookies about 1 inch apart. Chill cookies again before baking. The cookies will come out better if dough is cold. Bake cookies for 6 minutes. Rotate the pan and bake another 6 minutes. You’re looking for golden brown edges. Cool completely before assembling cookies. To assemble alfajor cookies, transfer dulce de leche into a piping bag. Line up two cookies side by side. Pipe about 1 teaspoon dulce de leche onto every other cookie. Sandwich together. To finish, sift powdered sugar over top of sandwiched cookies.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Turkey Cookie Pops
12 Chocolate Oreos
12 Vanilla Oreos
144 pieces Candy Corn
24 pieces 6-inch Lollipop Sticks
24 Pretzel Sticks
1 container (16 Oz. Size) Ready-to-use Vanilla Frosting
1 container (16 Oz. Size) Ready-to-use Chocolate Frosting
24 Mini Chocolate Oreos
48 Candy Eyes
1 container (7 Oz. Size) Ready-to-use Red Cooking Icing

For each turkey, gently twist apart an Oreo cookie and set aside the top of the cookie.With the cookie resting on a hard surface, gently press the tips of 5 candy corns into the frosting along the upper edge of the cookie to make the turkey’s feathers. Opposite to the feathers, add the lollipop stick by positioning it 3/4 of the way up the cookie and gently press and twist the stick into the frosting. To make the turkey feet, break the two ends of a pretzel stick off and press them into the frosting on either sides of the lollipop stick.Now it’s time to reassemble the turkeys. First, fill a resealable bag with vanilla frosting, and another bag with chocolate frosting. Clip a corner off each and use it as an icing bag. On the cookie to which you just added feathers, feet, and a stick, pipe on a generous swirl of vanilla frosting. Place the cookie top back on top of the cookie.For the turkey head, pipe a large dot of frosting on the bottom of the cookie pop and then adhere a mini Oreo cookie. If it’s a vanilla turkey, use vanilla frosting, and if it’s a chocolate turkey, use chocolate frosting.For the finishing touches, use chocolate frosting to “glue” the candy eyes onto the turkey head. To make the beak, cut the tip off of a candy corn and attach it using chocolate frosting. Finally, for the turkey wattle, draw it on with the bottled red frosting.Continue to do the same for the remainder of the 23 cookies. I recommend making an assembly line to speed up the process. Allow the cookie pops at least 1 hour for the frosting to set before picking them up. Tie a fall-colored bow to each lollipop stick if you wish. Store in a resealable bag for up to a week.

Carrot Cake Whoopie Pies
FOR THE WHOOPIE PIES:
2 ounces, weight Butter
2 ounces, weight Brown Sugar
2 ounces, weight Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1 Egg
6 ounces, weight Flour
1/4 teaspoons Salt
3/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ginger
1/4 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/4 teaspoons Allspice
3/4 cups Shredded Carrots
FOR THE CREAM CHEESE FILLING:
2 ounces, weight White Chocolate
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese
4 ounces, weight Butter
4 ounces, weight Powdered Sugar

For the whoopie pies: Cream butter, brown sugar, and white sugar until fluffy. Scrape down the sides, and add the egg. Beat for 1 minute, or until egg is fully incorporated.In a separate bowl, combine flour, salt, baking soda, baking powder, and all the spices together. Add to the butter mixture, little by little, scraping down the sides each time. Add carrots last, and combine.Preheat oven to 350ºF.Put carrot batter into a piping bag fitted with a wide flat tip. Pipe out disks that are 2 ½ inch diameter, then tap the sheet tray down on the table a few times for the batter to settle in. If there is a tip where you piped the batter, wet your hands a little and tap the tip down.Bake for about 15 minutes.For the white chocolate cream cheese filling: Melt white chocolate over a double boiler, keeping a careful eye on it so it does not burn. Once melted, set aside.In a mixing bowl fitted with a paddle attachment, beat cream cheese and butter together, then slowly add sifted powdered sugar. Once powdered sugar is all incorporated, beat on high to get the filling nice and fluffy. Then slowly add the melted white chocolate.Place filling into a piping bag, no tip necessary. Once whoopie cookies are cooled, arrange side by side to fill. Pipe filling onto one side, and cover.You can roll sides in shaved white chocolate if you like or just enjoy as is!

Whipped Pumpkin Pie Bites
2 whole Pie Crusts, Brought To Room Temperature
1 package (8 Oz. Size) Cream Cheese, Softened
3/4 cups Powdered Sugar
3/4 cups Pure Pumpkin
1 Tablespoon Pumpkin Pie Spice
1 container (8 Oz. Size) Whipped Topping, Such As Cool Whip
Additioal Whipped Cream, For Topping (optional)

Preheat oven to 450ºF. Lightly grease a 24-count mini muffin tin with nonstick cooking spray. Set aside.Unroll both pie crusts onto a flat surface. Using a round biscuit cutter or cookie cutter, cut 24 circles from dough. Place each circle into each muffin well and lightly press down and up sides to form a crust.Bake for 8–10 minutes, or until crusts are lightly browned. Remove from oven and cool completely.In a medium bowl, beat cream cheese and powdered sugar with an electric mixer or stand mixer with fitted paddle attachment until smooth and creamy. Mix in pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice until fully incorporated. Gently fold in whipped topping until combined.Spoon pumpkin mixture into cooled pie crusts. Top with whipped cream and a dusting of pumpkin pie spice, if desired. Refrigerate until ready to serve.

Caramel Fudge Pie
1 whole Prepared 9-inch Pie Crust (I Like To Use Pioneer Woman's Recipe For Pam's Pie Crust)
6 Tablespoons Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
6 Tablespoons Flour
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1-1/2 cup Sugar
3 whole Eggs, Beaten
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
3/4 cups Butter, Melted
2 ounces, weight Melted Milk Chocolate Or If You Prefer Dark Chocolate
Good Quality Caramel Sauce, To Serve
Vanilla Ice Cream, For Topping (optional)

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a pie pan with the crust.In a mixing bowl or the bowl of your stand mixer, mix dry ingredients (cocoa powder, flour, cinnamon, sugar). On low speed, beat in eggs and vanilla. Blend in melted butter, scraping down the sides so everything gets fully incorporated.Pour chocolate filling into the pie crust. Use a separated or rubber spatula to even out the filling. Filling will not come all the way up to the top. Don’t worry about this because it will rise as it bakes.When you have a more delicate pie crust edge, like the leaves you see in the photo, I like to make an aluminum foil shield to protect them during the initial baking. I just cut an extra long piece of foil that is a bit longer than the circumference of the pie plate. Then I fold it over into thirds to make it narrower, and fold it around so it covers the leaf edge.Place pie in the oven on the middle rack. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, removing the foil edge after the first 15 minutes of baking. When done, the pie will have a crusty brownie-like top with a creamy fudge center. Let cool slightly.After pie has cooled a bit, you can add a decorative chocolate design on top. Melt chocolate in the microwave for 30 seconds. Stir and heat for an additional 20 seconds until it is just melted through. Put melted chocolate in a pastry bag and cut of the very tip to make a small hole. Make a zigzag pattern going one direction, then turn pie at an angle and make another set of zigzag marks going the opposite direction.When ready to serve the pie, drizzle a little caramel sauce on the plate. The cinnamon and caramel really add something special to this pie.Want to turn this pie into a Christmas dessert? Leave out the cinnamon and use fudge sauce instead of caramel. Serve with peppermint ice cream. This is a simple and delicious fudge pie you can dress up and serve for any occasion.

Cracker Candy
1-1/2 bag (about 4 Oz. Sleeve) Salted Or Unsalted Crackers
1 cup Unsalted Butter
1 cup Brown Sugar
12 ounces, fluid Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
1/2 cups Chopped Or Sliced Walnuts (optional)
1/2 cups Shredded Coconut (optional)

Start by covering a cookie sheet with tin foil then spray with oil. Layer crackers evenly over the whole sheet. You may have to crack some of the crackers in half to fill out the edges.Preheat oven to 400ºF.In a medium saucepan, melt butter then add brown sugar. Slowly bring to a boil for 4–5 minutes. Pour over the crackers and put directly into the oven. Cook for 5 minutes.Take the crackers out of the oven. Sprinkle chocolate chips in a thin layer over the top of the crackers. Once they are all melted, put back into the oven for 2 minutes.Add whatever toppings you like. I added nuts to all the walnuts but shredded coconut to only half since not everyone in the house likes it.Put in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes to harden the chocolate. Once the chocolate has hardened, crack into pieces. Enjoy!

Lemon Meringue Cheesecake
FOR THE CRUST:
3 Tablespoons Sugar
1 cup Graham Crumbs
1/4 cups Melted Butter
FOR THE CHEESECAKE:
30 ounces, weight Cream Cheese
9 ounces, weight Sugar
2 Lemons, Zest Only (Reserve Juice For Lemon Curd)
3-3/4 ounces, weight Sour Cream
1 teaspoon Vanilla
3 Eggs
1 Egg Yolk
FOR THE LEMON CURD:
2 ounces, fluid Lemon Juice
3 ounces, weight Sugar
1 Egg
2-1/2 ounces, weight Butter
FOR THE MERINGUE:
4-1/2 ounces, weight Egg Whites
6 ounces, weight Sugar

Preheat oven to 350ºF (176ºC).For the crust, mix sugar, graham crumbs, and melted butter until it resembles wet sand. Put graham mixture into a springform pan, and press around to cover the bottom. Bake crust for 10 minutes.Reduce oven temperature to 250ºF (121ºC).To make the cheesecake layer, it is important to mix the ingredients in the correct order, otherwise, you’ll end up with weird chunks. Trust me, I’ve done it many times. Also, throughout this whole time you should only mix on low speed. You don’t want to incorporate too much air into the cheesecake, otherwise it will rise and deflate after cooled.Put room temperature cream cheese into a standing mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Add sugar, scrape down sides. Add lemon zest. Keep scraping down sides.Add sour cream and vanilla next, and let mix for a few minutes. Keep scraping down sides.Add eggs last, scrape down once more. Put filling in prepared pan and place in oven. You also want to put another oven safe pan (like a cake pan) on the bottom rack of the oven and fill it with water so the steam can keep the cheesecake moist while baking.Bake for 1 hour and 15 minutes. Cool for 8 hours or overnight. After completely cooled, run a small knife around the edge of the spring form and pop the sides off.For the lemon curd, put a pot with an inch of water over medium heat. In a metal or glass bowl, mix lemon juice, sugar, and eggs. Cook over double boiler for 7–10 minutes, or until mixture thickens and doubles in size. Once cooked, add cubed cold butter a little at a time until completely incorporated.Cool the lemon curd for 4 hours so the butter in the curd can set up and solidify again.For the beautiful meringue, put egg whites into a mixer fitted with a whisk attachment. Whip on medium to start, while slowly incorporating sugar. When all sugar is mixed in, whip on high speed until you reach stiff peaks.Put meringue into a piping bag fitted with your favorite piping tip and cover the entire top of the cheesecake. Toast the meringue with a torch.

Caramel Stuffed Apple Cider Cookies
3/4 cups Apple Cider
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
3 teaspoons Cinnamon, Divided
1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 stick Butter, Softened
2/3 cups Dark Brown Sugar
1 whole Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar
12 whole Caramel Candies Unwrapped

First, bring the apple cider to a gentle boil over medium high heat in a small saucepan. Let it cook and reduce until there is only 2 tablespoons left. Set it aside and let it cool. Then whisk flour, 1 teaspoon of the cinnamon, pumpkin pie spice, baking soda, baking powder and salt together in a medium bowl. Set that aside too.Get out a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and combine butter and brown sugar in its bowl. Beat until fluffy before adding the egg, reduced and cooled apple cider, and vanilla. Once they are mixed in, reduce speed to low and slowly add dry ingredients until you have a soft cookie dough.Get out a sheet pan and line it with a silicone mat or parchment paper. Stir granulated sugar and remaining 2 teaspoons of cinnamon together in a small bowl for the coating. Then use a 1 1/2 inch cookie scoop to bring two scoops together into a ball. Flatten it a little into a disc and place one of the caramels in the center. Bring the sides over the completely enrobe the caramel and roll it slightly to smooth it back into a ball. Roll it through the cinnamon sugar to coat it well and place it on the lined sheet tray. Repeat this process to make a dozen total. Put the tray in the freezer to set everything for 20 minutes.When the 20 minutes is up, preheat oven to 350ºF. Bake the cookies for about 15 minutes, until they slightly spread and get a little golden around the edges. They will still be a bit soft on top. Let cool for 6–8 minutes before transferring them to a rack to finish cooling. Store in a sealed container until you are ready to serve them!

Chocolate Chip Marshmallow Cookies
8 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Softened
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Packed Brown Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1 Egg
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Chocolate Chips Or Chunks
6 Tablespoons Marshmallow Cream, Or As Needed

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Beat butter and sugars in stand mixer until creamy. Add vanilla and egg; beat on low speed until just incorporated.Add flour, baking soda, and salt. Mix until dough forms. Add chocolate chips and stir in with spatula.Form tablespoon-sized balls of dough, either with a scoop or your hands and place on baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Make a small well in the center of each cookie, and place 1 teaspoon of marshmallow cream. Gently push the sides of the dough balls up to cover up the marshmallow cream.Bake for 9–11 minutes until cookies start to get golden brown. It is important not to over-bake them. Let cool on the pan for a few minutes before moving them to a cooling rack.

Peanut Butter Chickpea Chocolate Chip Cookies
1 can (15 Oz. Size) Reduced-sodium Chickpeas, Drained And Rinsed
14 Tablespoons Creamy Peanut Butter (the No-stir Kind)
1/2 cups Coconut Sugar, Firmly Packed
1/3 cups Agave
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
3/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
Pinch Of Sea Salt
3 Tablespoons Coconut Flour, Firmly Packed
1/3 cups Dairy-free Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips

Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper and preheat oven to 350ºF.Place drained and rinsed chickpeas on a paper towel. Using another paper, gently pat them dry. Remove any of the chickpea skins that have come loose (you don’t need to remove any of the ones that are still stuck to the chickpeas) and place the chickpeas into a large food processor.Add all the ingredients, except coconut flour and chocolate chips. Blend, stopping to scrape down the sides as needed, until smooth and creamy. Make sure you scrape under the blade as I found a lot of my agave pooled under it.Add coconut flour and blend until well combined. Again, check under the blade. The dough should begin to pull away from the blade.Pour into a large bowl and refrigerate for 5 minutes to cool down the dough. Then stir in the chocolate chips.Use a cookie scoop to drop by lightly heaping 1-tablespoon balls onto the prepared pan, pressing out each cookie about 1/2 inch thick. These cookies don’t spread, so you should be able to get them all on one pan.Bake until edges are golden brown and the cookies are lightly puffed up, about 25–30 minutes. Let cool completely on the pan. Devour!

Aunt Rocky’s Chocolate Chip Pecan Cookie (Sugar-Free)
1-1/4 cup Blanched Almond Flour
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1/4 teaspoons Rumford Baking Powder, Or Other Gluten Free Brand
2 Tablespoons Granular Erythritol (such As Swerve)
3 Tablespoons Butter, Melted (see Note)
2 Tablespoons Walden Farms Pancake Syrup, Or Other Sugar Free Syrup (see Note)
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/4 cups LC Foods Sugar Free Dark Chocolate Chips
1/4 cups Pecans, Coarsely Chopped

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a large cookie sheet with parchment or silicone baking sheet, set aside.In a medium mixing bowl, combine all dry ingredients (almond flour, salt, baking soda, erythritol) and whisk to remove any lumps.In a small bowl or measuring cup, melt butter in the microwave (about 20–30 seconds). Add syrup and vanilla to melted butter and stir. Pour into the dry ingredients and mix well with a mixing spoon or spatula. Fold in chocolate chips and pecans.Using a 1-tablespoon cookie scoop, drop dough onto cookie sheet. These do not spread or change shape during baking, so press into a round and somewhat flattened cookie shape.Bake 10–12 minutes, depending on how thin you pressed them. They should be browning around the edges when done. Let cool for 5 minutes on the cookie sheet before transferring to cooling rack. Cool completely, then store at room temperature uncovered or loosely covered so they don’t get too soft.Note: To make these dairy-free, substitute coconut oil for the butter. For Paleo, substitute maple syrup for the sugar free syrup.Nutrition estimates are calculated per serving with My Fitness Pal’s online recipe analyzer. If you make any changes to the ingredients, your results may differ. The recipe is stored there and available to MFP users for logging in their food diaries. I do not include sugar alcohols or liquid sucralose in my nutrition counts, as they are not absorbed by the body and rate zero on the glycemic index.Calories 69, Total Fat 6 g, Sodium 60g, Potassium 38g, Total Carbohydrate 2.1 g, Dietary Fiber 1.4 g, Net Carbs 1g, Sugars 0.3, Protein 1.5 g. Macros: 87% Fats, 7% protein, 6% carbs.© September 30, 2016 Roxana LopezFor more low lchf/keto recipes and cooking tips, look for Aunt Rocky’s Low Carb Recipes & Tips Group on Facebook, or follow me on Pinterest a auntrockyI don’t get any commission or kickback for products I use or mention in my recipes. Brand names are included only to assure a similar outcome to mine, and more accurately assess nutritional estimates, which are based on exact ingredients I used.Inspired by a low carb chocolate chip cookie recipe at EasyLowCarbDesserts.com, with modifications for Keto/LCHF.

Chocolate-Studded Chocolate Cake with Vanilla Yogurt Frosting
1 cup Whole Wheat Flour
1/2 cups Cacao Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Sea Salt
1/2 cups Water
1/2 cups Sugar
1/3 cups Mashed Banana
1/4 cups Butter, At Room Temperature
1 whole Egg, At Room Temperature
1/2 cups Dark Chocolate Chunks
FOR THE FROSTING:
1 cup Greek Yogurt
3 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

Preheat oven to 350ºF and coat a two small cake pans with oil or butter.Combine dry ingredients in a large mixing bowl and set aside.Beat together the wet ingredients using a hand mixer and slowly pour into the dry ingredients. Stir to combine and remove any lumps of flour.Pour batter into cake pans evenly and bake for 20–22 minutes, or until an inserted toothpick comes out clean. Cool completely.Whisk frosting ingredients until combined. When cake has cooled, cover the bottom layer in frosting and then the top. Carefully place one on top of the other and gently press chocolate chunks into the cake until evenly distributed.Slice and serve immediately and store leftovers in an airtight container in the fridge for up to one week.

Pumpkin Spice Paleo Vegan Pecan Pie Bars
FOR THE CRUST:
3 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
1/3 cups Coconut Oil, At Room Temperature (should Be The Consistency Of Softened Butter)
3/4 cups Coconut Flour, Sifted (66g)
1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice
Pinch Of Sea Salt
FOR THE PECAN TOPPING:
2 Tablespoons Flax Meal
5 Tablespoons Warm Water
1 cup Pecans (105g)
1/2 cups Coconut Sugar, Packed
3 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
1-1/2 Tablespoon Coconut Oil
1-1/4 teaspoon Amoretti Natural Pumpkin Pie Extract
1/4 teaspoons Sea Salt
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree

Heat oven to 350ºF and line the bottom of an 8×8 inch baking pan with parchment paper, leaving an overhang to use as a handle to get the bars out of the pan once chilled.In a large bowl, beat maple syrup and coconut oil using an electric hand beater, until creamy and well combined. Stir in coconut flour, pumpkin pie spice and salt until it forms a dough.Press the dough evenly into the bottom of the pan and bake until edges are a deep golden brown and the middle is lightly golden, about 14–15 minutes. Your crust will probably have risen and cracked a little bit when it comes out of the oven; use the back of a small spoon to pack it down so it’s flat and crack-free. Let cool for 1 hour before starting the topping.As soon as the crust comes out of the oven, whisk flax meal with warm water and refrigerate, so the flax egg can gel up for the hour that the crust is cooling.In the meantime, place pecans onto a cookie sheet in a single layer and bake them iuntil they darken and smell nutty, about 8–10 minutes. Let cool and then roughly chop and set aside.Once crust has cooled for 1 hour, combine coconut sugar, maple syrup, coconut oil, pumpkin pie extract and salt in a large sauce pan over medium heat and bring to a boil. Boil for 1 minute, stirring frequently and then remove from heat. Let the mixture stand at room temperature for 5 minutes.Once it has sat, add chilled flax egg and mix well. Finally, stir in chopped pecans until they are coated in the sugar mixture.Pour the topping over the crust, using a spoon to spread out and making sure the sugar mixture and pecans are evenly coating the crust. Press the pecans lightly so they lay flat.Dollop the canned pumpkin over top of the pecan mixture and use a sharp knife to swirl it around. Bake until filling looks set, about 20 minutes. Let stand until it comes down to room temperature. Then, refrigerate for at least 6 hours or up to overnight. Once chilled, slice and devour.Notes: As with all gluten-free baking, please weigh your flour as different brands can weigh differently for the same cup measurement. Make sure the crust is nice and golden. You want it be really firm, or the topping will cause it to go soggy. Make sure you give these bars the full amount of time to chill, as this is what hardens the crust. And serve these bars cold, not at room temperature or warmed up. Since the topping is so sticky, it’s a lot easier to slice these if you a run a sharp knife around the outsides of the pan first, before slicing into bars!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Nutella Banana Cream Pie
FOR THE CRUST:
1-1/4 cup Flour
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1/8 teaspoons Baking Powder
2 Tablespoons Cocoa Powder
1 Tablespoon Sugar
8 Tablespoons Butter
4 Tablespoons Cold Water
FOR THE CRUNCHY NUTELLA LAYER:
3/4 cups Cream
1/2 cups Nutella
1/4 cups Chopped Chocolate
1/2 cups Hazelnuts
FOR THE BANANA CUSTARD LAYER:
1-1/2 cup Cream, Divided
1 Egg Yolk
1 Tablespoon Cornstarch
2 Tablespoons Sugar
1 pinch Salt
2 Bananas
1 teaspoon Vanilla

Preheat oven to 350ºF (176ºC). First start by making the cocoa dough crust. Place all ingredients except for the water into a food processor and pulse. Add 1 tablespoon cold water at a time until dough forms together. Wrap with plastic and set in a fridge for 20 minutes. Once dough is rested, sprinkle some flour over your work surface and roll out the cocoa dough until 1/4-inch thick. Lay into pie pan and cut off edges, and style however you’d like. I’ve always been bad at crimping edges so I just trim them off. Take a fork and dock the dough all over. Place pie pan in freezer for 5 minutes to get the butter cold again. Bake the crust for 15 minutes. Cool down before starting the next step, we are done with the oven. For the crunchy Nutella layer, place cream in a small sauce pot and on medium heat. In a medium bowl, place Nutella and chopped chocolate. Once cream starts to rise, remove from heat and pour over Nutella and chocolate mixture. Slowly incorporate cream into the Nutella until it reaches a smooth saucy consistency. Fold in chopped hazelnuts, and pour into pie shell. Let this cool and set up for 1 hour in a refrigerator (or faster in the freezer). To make the banana custard layer, start by whipping 1 cup of cream until you have stiff peaks. Set aside. Place remaining ½ cup cream in a small sauce pan. In a separate bowl, combine yolk, cornstarch, sugar, and salt. Whisk until thoroughly combined. Have mashed banana ready in a separate medium bowl. Add vanilla. Heat cream on high, and right before it starts to rise (boil), pull from heat and slowly pour a little hot cream mixture into the yolk mixture. You are slowly raising the temperature of the yolk so it does not curdle. Once all the cream is in the yolk mixture, pour it all back into the pot and heat again on medium. Whisk vigorously and do not leave for a second, this will thicken up in no time. Once thickened, quickly pour over the banana mash and whisk to combine and to cool the custard down. Fold in the whipped cream and continue to fold until all combined. You can either place cream in a piping bag and pipe the cream layer on the pie or just smooth it over with a spatula. Finish with some more chopped hazelnuts if desired! Chill the pie for 2 hours before cutting into it.

Chocolate Chip Oatmeal Cookies
1-1/2 cup Butter, Softened
3/4 cups Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Sugar
1 Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Salt
1-1/2 cup Flour
3 cups Quick Oats
1 package (12 Oz. Size) Chocolate Chips

In a large bowl, cream the butter and sugars. Add egg, vanilla, baking soda, salt, and flour; beat to combine. Gently fold in oatmeal and chocolate chips.Using a cookie scoop (I used a 1-tablespoon size), portion out dough onto an ungreased cookie sheet. Slightly flatten.Bake at 375°F for 10 minutes or until golden brown.

Chocolate Tortuga Rum Cake
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2-1/4 cups Flour
1/4 cups Cocoa Powder
8 ounces, weight Oil
16 ounces, weight Sugar
4 Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla
8 ounces, weight Water
FOR THE RUM GLAZE:
4 ounces, weight Butter
10 ounces, fluid Rum
FOR THE LIME GLAZE:
1 cup Powdered Sugar
1 Tablespoon Lime Zest
1 Tablespoon Corn Syrup
1 Tablespoon Milk
1 Tablespoon Rum

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Sift baking powder, salt, flour, and cocoa together. Set aside. Set up a mixer with a paddle attachment. On low to medium speed, add oil, then sugar. Add eggs and vanilla. When eggs are fully incorporated, alternately add flour mixture and water. Batter should be smooth and on the thin side. Spray bundt pan thoroughly. Add batter to pan and bake for 1 hour. While baking, melt together all ingredients in rum glaze. Do not boil. Once cake is baked, remove from oven and set on a baking rack, do not remove from bundt pan. Pour/brush rum glaze over the warm cake. It is best to do this when cake is still warm so rum can absorb into the cake. Pour/brush rum glaze until completely gone, this will take a while. If you feel the cake cannot take any more glaze, walk away for 10 minutes, come back and continue to pour/brush. The cake will have had time to absorb and will be able to take on more glaze. Completely cool the cake for 1 to 2 hours in the fridge before taking out of bundt pan. You’re trying to cool that glaze into the cake completely. Next, make the lime glaze. This will be the frosting going on top of the cake. Sift powdered sugar into a bowl, add lime zest, and corn syrup. Start whisking and add milk, then add rum. Once combined, you should have a nice drippy consistency. Once cake is completely cooled, invert onto plate or cake stand. If you have problems removing the cake from the pan, don’t panic. Invert the cake pan onto whatever you’d like, then either use a torch or a blow dryer and heat the sides of the pan until the cake releases. Spoon or pipe glaze onto cake.

Pumpkin Seed Oatmeal Raisin Cookie Bars
1/2 cups Nut Butter
1/3 cups Maple Syrup
2 whole Flax Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
3/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Pumpkin Pie Spice
1 teaspoon Sea Salt (plus More For Sprinkling)
1/2 cups Oats
1/3 cups Raisins
1/2 cups Pumpkin Seeds

Preheat oven to 350ºF and coat a baking dish with oil. Any small to medium baking dish will work, just know that smaller pans will require longer baking times and medium pans will let the bars cook faster.In a medium size bowl, stir wet ingredients: nut butter, maple syrup, flax eggs, and vanilla.In a large bowl, combine dry ingredients: flour, baking soda, pumpkin pie spice, sea salt, oats, and raisins. Pour wet ingredients into the dry and stir until incorporated. Fold in pumpkin seeds.Transfer the dough to the baking dish, gently pressing it in to ensure uniformity. Bake for 28–30 minutes if using a smaller dish, and less time if using a medium dish. Remove from oven when golden brown and crisp at the top and a toothpick comes out clean.Cool completely before slicing and serving. Store leftovers in an airtight container for up to one week.

Cherry Butterscotch Bar
3 cups Brown Sugar
1 teaspoon Salt
1-1/2 cup Butter, Melted
3 Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla
2-1/2 cups Flour
2 cups Cherries

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Spray a quarter sheet tray and put parchment on the bottom. In a mixing bowl, add brown sugar and salt. Add melted butter. Add eggs, one at a time. Add vanilla, then flour. Fold in cherries with a spatula. Pour batter into prepared quarter sheet tray. Bake for 35 minutes. Cool completely before cutting, and enjoy!

Rum Raisin Bread Pudding
FOR THE BREAD:
1 cup Raisins
1 Tablespoon Rum
1 pound Brioche Bread, Cubed
1/2 cups Chopped Almonds
1 Tablespoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/2 teaspoons Cloves
1 pinch Salt
FOR THE CUSTARD:
2 cups Milk
4 ounces, weight Granulated Sugar
2 whole Eggs
4 whole Egg Yolks
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract

First, prepare the raisins. Put them in a medium saucepan and add enough water to submerge them. Bring the water to a boil and let the raisins plump up in it. Then drain them and transfer them to a bowl. Add the rum and stir it all together. Let the raisins soak up the rum for 20 minutes or so while you gather and measure out the rest of the ingredients. Then stir the raisins with the cubed bread, almonds, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves and salt. Set it aside and start on the custard.Bring the milk and sugar to a low boil in a saucepan, stirring occasionally to dissolve the sugar. Meanwhile, whisk the eggs and egg yolks until they are completely beaten. When the milk is gently bubbling, slowly whisk it into the eggs. Do just a little at first so that the eggs do not scramble. Once you have whisked in all of the milk, whisk in the vanilla. Then the custard is done and it is time to assemble everything.Preheat oven to 300ºF and get out 8 individual ramekins. Divide the bread mixture evenly among the eight ramekins. Then evenly pour the custard over the bread in each ramekin. It takes roughly 2/3 of a cup per ramekin. Then get out either a large 9 x 13 baking dish or two 8 x 8 baking dishes and place the ramekins in them. Fill the baking dishes with water to go about 1/3 of the way up the sides of the ramekins, being careful not to get any in the bread puddings. Bake them until the custard sets and the top starts to brown, about 45 to 50 minutes. Serve warm immediately and enjoy!

Cherry and Plum Crumble
5 cups Sliced Plums And Pitted Cherries
2 teaspoons Fresh Lemon Juice
1/2 cups Sugar
3/4 cups Plus 3 Tablespoons Unbleached All-purpose Flour, Divided
1/2 cups Sliced Almonds
1/2 cups Rolled Oats
1/4 teaspoons Kosher Salt
6 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
Vanilla Ice Cream, To Serve

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease a 9-10 inch pie pan.Pour fruit into to pie pan. Toss with lemon juice. Stir sugar and 3 tablespoons flour together. Toss with the fruit.In another bowl, stir remaining flour, almonds, oats, and salt together. Cut butter into small chunks and add to the bowl. Use your fingers to press the butter into the other ingredients until the lumps of butter are small and evenly dispersed.Sprinkle the topping over the fruit. Bake for 30–35 minutes until the top is golden and the fruit juices are bubbling. Let cool for 20–30 minutes before serving.Serve warm with a scoop of vanilla ice cream. The crumble can be rewarmed in the microwave.

Soft Maple Cinnamon and Tahini Cookies
1-1/2 cup Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Nutmeg
1 teaspoon Sea Salt (plus More For Sprinkling)
2 whole Flax Eggs
1/2 cups Maple Syrup
1/2 cups Tahini
1/2 cups Shredded Or Flaked Coconut

Preheat oven to 350ºF and line a baking sheet with parchment paper.Whisk dry ingredients (except coconut) in a medium bowl. In a small bowl, whisk the wet ingredients. Slowly pour the wet into the dry and stir to combine. Add coconut and stir again.Scoop spoonfuls of dough onto the parchment paper, flattening each scoop gently with a fork and sprinkling with sea salt before transferring to the oven.Bake for 12–15 minutes, or until they become a light golden brown. Remove from oven and cool slightly before serving.Serve immediately and store leftovers in an airtight container for up to one week. Enjoy!

Halloween Bark
12 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate Chips
2 Tablespoons Pepitas
2 Tablespoons Unsweetened Dried Papaya
1/4 cups Naturally Colored Candy Corn
1/4 cups Naturally Colored Gummies
1/4 cups Naturally Colored Candy Coated Chocolate Gems

Fit a baking sheet with a piece of parchment paper or a nonstick pad, and set aside.In a microwave safe bowl, melt chocolate in the microwave for 30 seconds at a time (stirring in between), until smooth. Pour chocolate onto your prepared pan and smooth into an even layer.Sprinkle remaining ingredients over the melted chocolate. Press very gently to make sure they stick.Allow chocolate to cool to room temperature. Refrigerate until fully hardened before chopping into pieces.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Whole Wheat Crepes
2 Eggs
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 Tablespoons Sugar
3 cups Milk
2 cups Organic Whole Wheat Pastry Flour
Canola Oil, A Small Potato, And Butter For Cooking

In a large mixing bowl, beat eggs, salt, and sugar. Mix well.Add 1 cup of milk and mix again, then add flour, mixing with a wire whisk until batter is smooth. While mixing, gradually add remaining milk.Pour some canola oil in a shallow bowl or ramekin. Tip: Cut a small potato in half and put it on a fork to use for spreading oil in the pan. This was one of the tricks my mom used whenever she made crepes so it’s what I do as well.Preheat a slightly oiled 9 1/2 inch nonstick pan over medium heat. Using a ladle or cup, pour about 1/3 to 1/2 cup of batter onto the skillet (adjust the amount based on your results). Tilt the pan with a circular motion so that the batter coats the surface evenly.Cook the crepe for about 2 minutes until bottom is light brown. Loosen with a spatula and flip to cook the other side.Place cooked crepes on a buttered plate, then spread butter between each crepe so that they don’t stick together. Serve hot or room temperature with your favorite fillings and/or toppings.

Thin Mint Ice Cream
2 cups Cream
2 cups Milk
1 cup Sugar
1/4 cups Cocoa Powder
12 Egg Yolks
1 cup Dark Chocolate
1-1/2 cup Thin Mints

In a medium saucepan, add cream, milk, sugar, and cocoa powder. Heat on medium to high, stirring to dissolve sugar and cocoa powder. Meanwhile, place yolks in a bowl. Set up a larger bowl with the chopped chocolate, and set aside. Set up an ice bath to fit the larger bowl with the chocolate. When cream mixture starts getting warm to hot, start tempering the cream mixture into the yolk mixture. Tempering means to slowly pour the hot liquid into the raw yolks, slowly raising the temperature of the yolks as to not curdle. Once the yolk mixture is warm, pour it into the cream mixture over the stove. Attach a candy thermometer and cook to 180ºF (82ºC). If you don’t have a thermometer, cook until the cream base coats the back of the spoon evenly. This is called nappe. Once the mixture at nappe, remove from heat and use a fine mesh strainer to strain the hot mixture over the chopped chocolate. This will remove any cooked egg particles you may have obtained during the cooking process. Whisk to melt the chocolate into the cream mixture, and put the bowl over an ice bath. Using a spatula, move the ice cream base around to cool it down faster. Once the base is chilled, start to churn in an ice cream machine according to manufacturers’ instructions. Once churned, remove ice cream and fold in crushed thin mints. Put ice cream in large container and let freeze for 24 hours before serving.Makes about 1 quart ice cream.

Pumpkin Chocolate Chip Cookie Squares
1-1/2 cup Whole Wheat Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Sea Salt (plus More For Sprinkling)
1-1/2 teaspoon Pumpkin Pie Spice
1/2 cups Pumpkin Puree
1/4 cups Honey Or Maple Syrup
1 whole Egg
1/3 cups Coconut Oil, Plus More For Greasing
1/2 cups Dark Chocolate Chips (I Used Lily's Baking Chips)

Preheat oven to 375ºF and grease an 8×8 baking pan with oil.In a large mixing bowl, combine flour, baking powder, sea salt, and pumpkin pie spice and mix until combined. Set aside.In a small bowl, whisk pumpkin puree, honey or maple syrup, egg, and coconut oil. Pour into the dry ingredients and mix until combined. Fold in chocolate chips, careful not to over-mix.Press dough into the baking pan and sprinkle with sea salt. Bake for 20–22 minutes, or until edges are golden brown and a toothpick comes out almost clean. Cool completely before cutting.Store leftovers in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 2 weeks.

Sea Buckthorn Cheesecake
50 grams Whole Wheat Crackers
3 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar, Divided
1 Tablespoon Dark Cocoa, Powdered
1 cup Walnuts, Ground
50 grams Butter, Melted
200 grams Sea Buckthorn, Divided
250 grams Mascarpone
1 Tablespoon Honey
1 teaspoon Lemon Juice
1 pinch Cornstarch

For the crust, crush the crackers. Add 1 tablespoon of sugar, dark cocoa, walnuts and melted butter. Mix well and press into the cake’s base.For the cheesecake: extract the juice from the sea buckthorn. Split in half. Separately mix the mascarpone with honey and 1 tablespoon of sugar. Add half of the sea buckthorn juice and mix well. Add the mixture to the crust.For the sauce, heat up the rest of the juice and ad the rest of the sugar. Cook over low heat until it thickens a little bit. After about 7 minutes, add the cornstarch and blend well. Let the sauce cool to room temperature before decorating the cheesecake.

Modernized Dutch Apple Pancakes
1 Apple, Such As Golden Delicious, Granny Smith
1 Tablespoon Butter
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup, Divided
2 Eggs
1/2 cups Milk
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice
1 teaspoon Lemon Zest
1/4 teaspoons Ginger Powder (optional)
3/4 cups Whole Wheat Flour

Preheat oven to 170°C (340°F).Cut the apple into thin slices. It’s up to you if you want to peel the apple. Heat a nonsticking pan to medium heat. Add butter, half of the maple syrup and place the apple slices nicely in the pan. Let caramelize for 5 minutes.Meanwhile, make the dough. Add eggs with remaining maple syrup, milk, cinnamon, salt, lemon and zest. If using, add ginger powder. Stir in the flour. Make sure you don’t have any lumps.Pour mixture into the pan. Cook for another 2 minutes, then place the pan in the oven for 12 minutes.Remove from oven and enjoy! For perfect presentation, after removing from the oven, lay a large plate over the pan, turn both upside down, and let the pancake plop onto the plate.Optional alternative method: As an extra step when making the batter, you can separate the eggs. Beat the egg whites until stiff and gently fold it into the mix. Don’t throw out the egg yolk, that goes into the batter with the rest of the mix.

Pumpkin Moon Pie
1/2 cups Oil
1 cup Brown Sugar
1 Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1-1/2 cup Flour
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 Tablespoon Cinnamon
1-1/2 teaspoon Ginger
1/2 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/2 teaspoons Cloves
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
FOR THE MARSHMALLOW FILLING:
2-1/4 teaspoons Gelatin Powder
3/4 cups Cold Water, Divided
1 cup Sugar
1/4 cups Corn Syrup
1/2 Vanilla Bean
1 Tablespoon Cocoa Powder

Preheat oven to 350ºF (175ºC). Mix oil and brown sugar in a standing mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Add egg. In a separate bowl, combine flour, salt, spices, and leavening (baking soda and baking powder). Whisk together. To the egg and sugar mixture, add half the flour mixture. Scrape down the sides, then add the pumpkin puree. Scrape down sides, and add remaining flour mixture. Fit two cookie sheets with either parchment paper or a silicone mat. Fit a pastry bag with a large flat tip and fill the bag up with the pumpkin batter. Pipe 2-inch disks onto your parchment and space about 1 inch (2.5 cm) apart from each other. These don’t spread too much, but they’ll puff up a bit. Bake for 10–12 minutes. To make the marshmallow filling, start by blooming gelatin in the bottom of your mixing bowl or stand mixer. First put 1/4 cup cold water in the bowl, then sprinkle over the powdered gelatin. Fit mixing bowl with a whisk attachment. In a sauce pan, place remaining 1/2 cup water, sugar, and fit a candy thermometer to the side. Heat on high and watch closely. You’re looking to reach 240ºF (115ºC).Scrape the vanilla beans out of the pod and measure out your cocoa powder in a small bowl. Set aside. You’ll be adding this at the end. Once sugar mixture reaches temperature, pull from heat, and start slowly pouring into the mixing bowl. Have the mixing bowl speed on low until you’ve poured all the sugar mixture inside. Once sugar mixture is poured in, turn speed on mixer to high and let it start whipping, until doubled in size. This should take 5 to 10 minutes. Once doubled in size, add vanilla seeds and cocoa powder. Whisk on high again for 1 minute. Line your cookies next to one another—one face up, one face down—so you can easily pipe filling and close the cookie. Quickly place marshmallow mixture into a piping bag. Be warned: This is a really sticky part! But it’s worth it. Pipe as best you can and as fast as you can onto each cookie, and sandwich 2 cookies. You probably will have extra marshmallow left to do with whatever you please! Enjoy! These cookies will last for a week in an airtight container.

Apple Butter Hand Pies with a Maple Syrup Glaze
2 whole Premade Pie Crusts, Unbaked
3/4 cups Apple Butter
1 Egg White
FOR THE GLAZE:
1/2 cups Powdered Sugar
3 Tablespoons Milk
1 Tablespoon Maple Syrup

Preheat oven to 450ºF.Roll out pie dough on a floured surface. Cut out dough in desired shape. Separate shapes so that half are for the bottoms, and half are for the tops of the pies.Put 1 tablespoon of apple butter in the center of each pie bottom. Place a second cutout on top and crimp edges together with a fork. Cut small slits in the top of each pie (2-3 is fine).In a small bowl, whisk egg white until light and frothy. Brush top of each pie with a little of the egg white. Place pies on a cookie sheet lined with parchment paperBake for 10–12 minutes or until tops are golden brown. Allow pies to cool completely before putting the glaze on.For the glaze: Mix together sugar, milk and maple syrup in a small bowl. Add more water a teaspoon at a time if the glaze needs to be loosened up. You want it to be loose enough that it can easily be drizzled on top with a spoon.

Pumpkin Chocolate Chip Cookies
4 cups Flour
2 cups Oats
2 teaspoons Baking Soda
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Salt
1 cup Sugar
2 cups Brown Sugar
1-1/2 cup Butter
1 Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1 can (16 Oz. Size) Pumpkin Puree
1-1/2 cup Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Combine flour, oats, baking soda, cinnamon, and salt. Set aside. Combine sugar and brown sugar. Set aside. Cream butter in a mixing bowl fitted with a paddle attachment. Add sugars, little by little, while beating until light and fluffy. Add egg and vanilla, mix well. Alternate additions of dry ingredients and pumpkin, mixing well after each addition. Stir in chocolate chips. Use a 1 1/2 ounce scoop to drop onto cookie sheets fitted with parchment paper. Bake for 20–25 minutes, or until firm and lightly brown. Cool and enjoy!

Best Vegan Brownies
1 Tablespoon Coconut Flour
3 Tablespoons Cacao Powder
1 teaspoon Sea Salt, Plus Extra For Sprinkling
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
3/4 cups Nut Butter
1/2 cups Sugar
2 whole Flax Eggs
2 Tablespoons Non-dairy Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/3 cups Chocolate Chips
1/3 cups Chopped Walnuts

Preheat oven to 350ºF and coat a 9×9 baking pan or two smaller ones with oil.In a large bowl, combine dry ingredients: coconut flour, cacao powder, sea salt, and baking soda. Set aside.In a smaller bowl, whisk nut butter, sugar, flax eggs, almond milk, and vanilla extract. Carefully stir the wet into the dry and mix until combined. Fold in chocolate chips and walnut pieces.Transfer the batter to the baking pan and sprinkle with additional pinch of sea salt. Bake for 20–22 minutes, or until a toothpick comes out relatively clean (relatively because you might poke a chocolate chip, not undercooked batter).Let cool slightly before serving. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 2 weeks. Enjoy!

Coconut Panna Cotta
1-1/2 teaspoon Powdered Gelatin
2 Tablespoons Water
9-1/2 ounces, fluid Coconut Milk
3 Tablespoons Sugar
10 ounces, fluid Greek Yogurt
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1 drop Coconut Extract
2 Passionfruit
FOR THE CHOCOLATE LAYER:
6 ounces, fluid Cream
3-1/2 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate

Sprinkle gelatin over water and set aside for 5 minutes. In a small pan, heat coconut milk and sugar. Once warm, add bloomed gelatin and stir until all gelatin has dissolved.Add Greek yogurt, vanilla, and coconut extract to a separate bowl. Pour warm coconut mixture over the Greek yogurt and whisk to combine. Careful not to whisk too vigorously, you only want to incorporate mixture and not add too many air bubbles.Pour panna cotta mixture into ramekins as evenly as possible. Let them set up in a refrigerator for at least 6 hours, or overnight. Make the chocolate layer by heating cream until just before it boils. Slowly pour hot cream over chocolate little by little. Once cream is fully incorporated into chocolate and you have a smooth chocolate sauce, pour chocolate into ramekins until there is an even layer in each ramekin. Let the chocolate set up for 1 hour. Scrape passionfruit seeds out of each fruit. Spoon passionfruit seeds on top of each layer of chocolate.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Vegan Chocolate Chip Cookies
2/3 cups Olive Oil
1-1/3 cup Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Vanilla Almond Milk
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2-1/3 cups Cake Flour
1 Tablespoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
3-1/2 ounces, weight Vegan Dark Chocolate

Heat oven to 170°C (340°F).Combine oil with sugar and mix well. Add almond milk and vanilla and mix. Mix in cake flour, baking powder, salt and chocolate. Let the dough rest for 20 minutes in the fridge.Take out of the fridge and portion out into individual cookies. Lay cookies on a baking tin covered with baking paper.Place the baking tin in the oven and bake for 15 minutes. Take out of the oven, allow to cool and enjoy.

Whole Wheat Blueberry Almond Cookies
1-1/2 cup Whole Wheat Flour
1 teaspoon Sea Salt (plus More For Sprinkling)
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 cups Honey
1/2 cups Nut Butter
1 whole Flax Egg
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1 teaspoon Almond Extract
1/2 cups Blueberries

Preheat oven to 350ºF and line a baking pan with parchment paper.In a large mixing bowl, stir flour, sea salt, cinnamon, and baking powder and baking soda. Set aside.In a medium-sized bowl, whisk honey, nut butter, flax egg, coconut oil, and almond extract. Pour into the dry ingredients and stir to combine. Gently fold in the blueberries, being careful not to smash any.Scoop portions about the size of an ice cream scooper or slightly smaller, roll into balls, and distribute evenly on the baking pan. Sprinkle each with sea salt and bake for 15–17 minutes, or until firm and golden brown.Remove from oven and cool slightly before serving. Store leftovers in an airtight container for up to one week. Enjoy!

Strawberry Crumble Bars
1/2 cups Almonds
1/2 cups Rolled Oats
2 Tablespoons Coconut Sugar
4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1 teaspoon Sea Salt
1-1/2 cup Sliced Strawberries
4 Tablespoons Strawberry Jam
2 Tablespoons Orange Juice
1 Tablespoon Coconut Sugar
1 Tablespoon Cornstarch
FOR THE TOPPING:
4 Tablespoons Rolled Oats
4 Tablespoons Almond Meal
3 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
2 Tablespoons Coconut Sugar

Preheat oven to 375ºF and grease a bread tin with oil.In a blender or food processor, pulse almonds, rolled oats, coconut sugar, and coconut oil until coarse, but evenly-sized. Press into the bread tin and bake for 15 minutes, or until golden brown. Set aside and decrease oven temperature to 350ºF.In a small saucepan or pot, stir strawberries, strawberry jam, orange juice, coconut sugar, and cornstarch until thickened, about 5–7 minutes. Remove from heat and pour into the pan on top of the crust. Set aside.For the topping, stir rolled oats,almond meal, coconut oil, and coconut sugar. Sprinkle on top of the strawberry filling. Bake for 20–25 minutes, or until topping has crisped and turned golden brown.Remove from oven and cool slightly before serving. Store leftovers in an airtight container for up to 1 week. Enjoy!

Mini Chocolate Spiderweb Cheesecakes
FOR THE CRUST:
25 Oreo Cookies
5 Tablespoons Butter, Melted
FOR THE CHOCOLATE CHEESECAKES:
3/4 cups Bittersweet Chocolate Chips
2 packages (8 Oz. Size) Cream Cheese, Softened To Room Temperature
1/2 cups Plus 3 Tablespoons White Sugar
2 Tablespoons Hershey’s Dark Cocoa Powder (Dutch Process Will Work As Well)
2 Large Eggs
FOR THE GANACHE:
6 Tablespoons Heavy Cream
1/2 cups Bittersweet Chocolate Chips
1-1/2 teaspoon White Sugar
FOR THE SPIDERWEB DESIGN:
2 ounces, weight White Chocolate, Melted

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Spray a 12-cup muffin tin lightly with cooking spray and set aside.Place Oreos in the bowl of a food processor and pulse into fine crumbs. With food processor running, slowly pour in melted butter and continue to mix until mixture holds together.Divide crust mixture between muffin cups, using not much more than 2 tablespoons of mixture per cup (you will have some mixture left). Press mixture evenly over bottom of each muffin cup to compact. Place muffin tin in freezer while you prepare cheesecake filling.For the cheesecakes: Melt chocolate chips in microwave and set aside.Place cream cheese, sugar, and cocoa powder in a medium bowl and use a hand mixer to combine until smooth, scraping sides of bowl once. Mix in eggs, one at a time. Add melted chocolate and mix until completely blended and smooth, scraping sides of bowl as needed.Remove muffin tin from freezer and divide cheesecake filling between crusts. Bake in preheated oven for 20 minutes, or until centers are just set and appear dry.Place muffin tin on a cooling rack to cool completely. Once completely cool, place in fridge to chill for 2 hours. After 2 hours, make the ganache.For the ganache: Place cream, chocolate chips, and sugar in a small saucepan and melt over medium-low heat, until chocolate is completely melted and smooth.If you haven’t already, go ahead and melt white chocolate, then place into a small resealable bag. Set aside.Remove cheesecakes from fridge. Run a small knife (a grapefruit knife works very well, if you have one) around each cheesecake and remove from pan. Set on serving platter.Spoon some ganache on tops of cheesecakes ans spread, leaving a little bit of room around the edges (you will probably have some ganache leftover).Snip a very small corner off of the bag with the melted chocolate. Pipe three concentric circles onto each cheesecake. Starting from the center, draw a toothpick (you will need to use a clean end for each cheesecake), 6 times through circles towards outside edges of ganache to make spiderwebs. Transfer cheesecakes to fridge for 30 minutes to allow ganache to set.You can serve the same day, or a day or two after—cheesecakes always get better with age!Store leftover cheesecakes in fridge.

Apple Blackberry Crumble with Apple Sauce and Walnuts
2 cups Frozen Blackberries
1 whole Large Apple, Diced
1 Tablespoon Cinnamon, Ground
2 cups Apple Sauce
1/3 cups Raisins
1-1/2 cup Jumbo Rolled Oats
1 Tablespoon Extra Virgin Coconut Oil
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
1 cup Walnut Halves, Crushed

Preheat oven to 250ºF (120ºC).Take a small baking dish and spread frozen berries and apple in the dish evenly. Sprinkle cinnamon on top and add applesauce and the raisins.In a separate bowl, mix oats with coconut oil, maple syrup and walnuts. Scatter on top of the applesauce. Bake until slightly golden, about 20 minutes.

Whole Wheat Pecan Coffee Cake
1-1/4 cup Whole Wheat Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt
2 whole Eggs
1/3 cups Mashed Banana
1/3 cups Coconut Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
3 Tablespoons Almond Butter
1/4 cups Strong Coffee
FOR THE STREUSEL:
1/3 cups Whole Wheat Flour
1/4 cups Chopped Pecans
2 Tablespoons Sugar
1 Tablespoon Maple Syrup
1 Tablespoon Butter, Melted
1/2 Tablespoons Cinnamon
1 pinch Sea Salt

Preheat oven to 350ºF and oil or butter a loaf pan.Stir dry ingredients in a large mixing bowl and set aside.Whisk eggs in a medium-sized bowl. Add banana, sugar, vanilla, almond butter, and coffee. Whisk again and slowly pour into the dry ingredients. Stir to combine and remove any lumps of flour.In a separate bowl, stir the streusel ingredients and set aside.Pour half the cake batter into the loaf pan and top with half the streusel mixture. Pour in the rest of the batter and top with the rest of the streusel.Bake for 25–27 minutes, or until golden brown on top and toothpick-test-approved. Cool completely (a must!) before slicing. Serve with coffee and yogurt, nut butter, or icing.Refrigerate leftovers in an airtight container for up to 1 week. Enjoy!

Salted Caramel Cream Cake
FOR THE SALTED CARAMEL SAUCE:
1 cup Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Water
1 stick Unsalted Butter, Cut Into Pieces
1/2 cups Heavy Cream
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt
FOR THE VANILLA CAKE:
1-1/4 cup All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 whole Large Eggs, Room Temperature
1 cup Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups Canola Oil
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Buttermilk, Room Temperature
FOR THE CARAMEL CREAM CHEESE FILLING AND TOPPING:
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened
1 cup Heavy Cream
1 cup Chopped Walnuts Or Pecans, Lightly Toasted

To prepare the caramel sauce, combine sugar and water in a heavy saucepan set over low heat. Cook until sugar is dissolved. Add butter. Let it come to a boil and cook until it reaches a golden caramel color. Remove from heat and add cream slowly. Be careful as it will splatter. Whisk to combine. Add salt to taste. Let cool slightly.Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease bottom and sides of an 8-inch cake pan. Line the bottom with parchment paper. Set aside.Sift flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt in a large bowl.In another bowl, mix eggs and sugar until well combined. Gradually add oil and vanilla, mix until just blended.Slowly add half the flour mixture; mix until just blended. Add buttermilk, mix until just blended. Add remaining flour mixture, mix until batter is combined and smooth.Pour the batter into the prepared pan and smooth the top. Bake 18 to 20 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the cake comes out clean. Remove the cake from the oven and let cool completely.To prepare caramel cream filling, mix cream cheese and half cup of caramel sauce in a food processor until combined.Whip the heavy cream until it holds soft peaks. Add the cream to the cream cheese mixture and fold with a spatula until thoroughly combined.To assemble, line the bottom and sides of an 8-inch springform pan with parchment paper. Transfer the vanilla cake layer to the pan. Pour the caramel cream mixture over the cake. Juggle to lightly level the top. Chill in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours.Remove cake from the refrigerator. Transfer cake from cake pan to a serving plate. Peel off the parchment papers. Top the cake with more caramel sauce and nuts, if desired.

Red Velvet Creme Brulee
3-3/4 ounces, fluid Egg Yolks
4 ounces, weight Sugar, Plus More For Torching
14 ounces, fluid Heavy Cream
2 ounces, fluid Buttermilk
2 teaspoons Cocoa Powder
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1 teaspoon Red Food Color

Preheat oven to 325ºF (162ºC). No fan (convection). Place 4 ramekins into a baking dish with 2-inch sides. In a medium size bowl, add yolks. Add yolks, whisk well. In a medium sauce pot, heat cream and buttermilk together. Once warm, add cocoa powder, vanilla, and red food color. Whisk lightly until smooth. Once cream mixture is hot (do not boil), temper cream with yolk mixture. You’re slowly heating up the yolk mixture with the hot cream as to not curdle. Once you’ve tempered in the yolks, divide evenly into ramekins. (Do not return to pot after you’ve tempered in the yolks because you’re not trying to cook the yolks over the stove) If you have bubbles on the top of the mixture, lightly torch the surfaces to remove. Fill up the baking dish with hot water, cover loosely with tin foil, and poke some holes in the foil to vent. Carefully place dish in the middle of your oven. Bake for 40 minutes. To check whether it is done, jiggle the dish a little and if the center seems loose, bake a little longer, checking every 5 minutes. Once baked, remove from oven and carefully place each ramekin on a cookie sheet. Refrigerate for at least 4 hours, or overnight. The custard should be served chilled. When serving, sprinkle about 1 tablespoon of sugar over the top of the custard, and shake to even out. Use a blowtorch to brûlée each ramekin. Another way to brûlée without using a torch is to set your oven on broil, sprinkle the sugar over each custard, and broil for about 3–5 minutes.

Non-Fudge Ghee Brownies
2-1/2 cups Ghee
2-1/2 cups Powder Sugar
7 whole Eggs
1 cup Cocoa Powder, Unsweetened
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 pinch Baking Soda
1 pinch Salt
3 teaspoons Baking Powder

Leave ghee in the refrigerator for 10 minutes. It needs to be firm, not at room temperature.Preheat oven to 325ºF. Coat an 11x7x2 baking pan with nonstick spray or oil then line with parchment paper.When ghee is ready, transfer to a mixing bowl and cream with a handheld or stand mixer. Add sugar and beat well. Add eggs, one at a time, and keep mixing/beating until well-combined.Add cocoa powder, beat well. Add flour, baking soda, salt and baking powder. Mix well.Pour prepared batter into the baking pan. Bake 30–35 minutes until done, being careful to check for doneness close to the end of the baking time. Note that if you over-bake it, it will no longer be moist and the brownies lose their texture.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Peach Upside Down Cake
1 Tablespoon Unsalted Butter
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
2 whole Peaches
1 whole Egg
3 Tablespoons Organic Canola Oil
2 Tablespoons Milk Of Choice
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/4 teaspoons Apple Cider Vinegar
1 cup Blanched Almond Flour
1/2 cups Coconut Sugar
1/4 cups Tapioca Flour
1/4 Tablespoons Baking Soda
1 pinch Fine Sea Salt

Preheat oven to 350°F. Lightly grease a 6-inch round pan, set aside.In a microwavable bowl, melt butter in the microwave (or melt in a double boiler on the stove). Mix in maple syrup. Pour butter and maple syrup mixture into the greased pan.Thinly slice peaches. Place slices in a fan-shaped pattern that covers the bottom of the pan. If you have any holes, use a small piece of peach, or some few berries to fill them in. Set pan aside.In a medium mixing bowl, beat egg. Whisk in oil, milk, vanilla, and apple cider vinegar. Set aside.In a large mixing bowl, mix remaining (dry) ingredients. Pour wet ingredients (egg mixture) into the dry ingredients and stir to combine.Pour the batter into pan and cover the peaches completely. Use a spatula to smooth down into an even layer.Bake for 35–40 minutes, until cake is slightly rounded, firm and somewhat golden. Let it cool in the pan for around 10 minutes.Pass a thin rubber spatula or a knife throughout the edges of the cake to separate it from the sides of the pan. Cover the pan with a plate, and hold a firm grip against the pan. Quickly flip the cake onto the plate and take the pan off. Gently tap on the pan if you are having trouble getting the cake to come out. Serve immediately.

Spooky Ghost Marshmallow Brownies
3/4 cups Melted Butter
1-1/2 cup Sugar
3 Eggs
1 Egg Yolk
2 teaspoons Vanilla
3/4 cups Flour
1/3 cups Plus 2 1/2 Tablespoons Cocoa Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
FOR THE GHOST TOPPING:
16 Marshmallows
12 ounces, weight High Quality White Chocolate, Melted
32 Mini Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a 8 x 8-inch baking pan with parchment paper and grease with butter or nonstick spray.In a large bowl, whisk melted butter and sugar. Whisk in eggs and yolk, one at a time, until smooth. Add vanilla. Gently mix in flour, cocoa powder, salt, and baking soda.Pour batter into prepared baking pan and bake 30–35 minutes. Remove from oven and cool completely to room temperature.Refrigerate 30 minutes, and then slice into 16 pieces.To make the ghost topping, add 1 marshmallow to each brownie. Spoon 1 to 1 ½ tablespoons melted white chocolate over marshmallow to coat. Allow chocolate to drip over the edges. Add 2 mini chocolate chips for eyes and let chocolate set completely.

Homemade Butterfinger Bars
1/3 cups Corn Syrup
1/3 cups Water
1 cup Sugar
1 cup Peanut Butter
1 cup Coating Chocolate

Preheat oven to 200ºF (93ºC). Add corn syrup, water, and sugar into a medium sauce pot. Heat on high, and attach a candy thermometer. Cook to 310ºF (154ºC). Meanwhile, measure out peanut butter and set aside. Spray a small cookie sheet well. I used a quarter sheet tray (or a 9×12 tray) but you can use whatever you’ve got, as you will only be using a portion of it. Put cookie sheet in the oven. You’re trying to keep this relatively warm so when the candy comes up to temperature, you’ll have a little more time to smooth it out on the cookie sheet before it sets up and solidifies. A warm tray will help that. Watch the thermometer closely. This will take a few minutes to get to temperature, but it is important you do not go over else it will result in a brittle texture that you will not be able to eat without breaking your teeth. As soon as the thermometer reads 310ºF, turn off heat and immediately stir in peanut butter. Pull the cookie sheet from the oven and pour the candy on. Spray an offset spatula or rubber spatula with oil and smooth out the candy as quickly as possible, trying to get an even thickness all around. Once smooth, take a knife and score 1x 2 inch pieces. (You can use the oven as a warming agent if the candy is setting up too quickly.) Once you’re happy with the scoring, set on a counter to let set up for 30–40 minutes. Once candy is set up, invert onto a cutting board and cut where you scored. Melt chocolate over a double boiler, or in a microwave in 30-second increments. Dip half or the whole piece into chocolate and lay on a piece of parchment paper to dry. You can sprinkle a little sea salt at this time for a little salty boost, or just leave as is. Store in an airtight container. Do not refrigerate.

Blueberry Jam Breakfast Blondies
1 can (15 Oz. Size) Chickpeas, Drained And Rinsed
1/2 cups Nut Butter (I Used NuttZo)
1/4 cups Honey
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Sea Salt
1 whole Flax Egg
1/4 cups Blueberry Chia Jam

Preheat oven to 350ºF and grease a baking pan (I used 8×4) with oil.In a blender or food processor, toss chickpeas, nut butter, honey, cinnamon, and sea salt. Pulse until smooth, with only a few chunks for texture. Remove the blade (carefully, my friends) and stir in the flax egg.Pour batter into the baking pan and top with spoonfuls of jam. Using a toothpick or knife, swirl the jam around the bars.Bake for 30–35 minutes (less time for larger pans, more time for smaller pans), or until edges are golden brown and a toothpick comes out clean. Cool slightly before slicing and serve immediately. Store leftovers in an airtight container in the fridge for 1–2 weeks.Enjoy!

Baked Pumpkin Donuts
FOR THE DONUTS:
1-1/4 cup All-purpose Flour
1/2 cups Light Brown Sugar
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Pumpkin Spice
1/4 cups Pumpkin Puree
2 Tablespoons Melted Butter, We Used Salted
1/2 cups Milk
FOR THE CRUMB TOPPING:
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
3-1/2 Tablespoons All-purpose Flour
1/4 teaspoons Pumpkin Spice
2 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, melted
FOR THE PUMPKIN SPICE GLAZE:
1/2 cups Confectioners Sugar
1/2 Tablespoons Milk
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Spice

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Spray a donut mold with cooking spray and set aside.For the crumb topping: In a small bowl, mix sugar, flour and pumpkin spice. Mix until big clumps are gone. Add melted butter and mix with a fork until small clumps are formed. Put in the freezer while preparing the donut batter.For the donuts: In a large bowl, combine flour, brown sugar, baking powder and pumpkin spice. Whisk until clumps are gone.In a separate bowl, mix together pumpkin puree, melted butter and milk. Gently fold wet ingredients into the bowl with the dry ingredients.Place the batter into a resealable bag with the corner cut off and pipe into donut molds. Grab the crumb topping out of the freezer and sprinkle mixture evenly over the tops of each donut.Bake for 10–11 minutes. Allow donuts to cool before removing from the molds.For the glaze: Whisk glaze ingredients together in a small bowl. If glaze is too thick, add more milk. Drizzle over cooled donuts with a spoon.Note: We also drizzled some of the donuts with chocolate ganache that we had left over. If you want to add chocolate ganache, just microwave 1 cup of heavy cream until boiling. Once boiling, add 1 cup chocolate chips. Stir until smooth. It will get thicker as it cools. Once cool, drizzle over donuts.

Cauldron Cupcakes
FOR THE CUPCAKES:
2 cups Sugar
1-3/4 cup Flour
3/4 cups Unsweetened Dark Cocoa Powder
2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Salt
2 Eggs
1 cup Buttermilk
1 cup Brewed Espresso
2 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate, Melted
1/2 cups Vegetable Oil
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
FOR THE FROSTING:
1 cup Butter, Room Temperature
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 teaspoon Almond Extract
6 cups Powdered Sugar
4 Tablespoons Whole Milk Or Whipping Cream
1 pinch Salt
FOR DECORATING:
Lime Green Food Coloring
Edible Candy Balls, In Different Sizes And Shades Or Green
Edible Goofy Eyes
Red Striped Birthday Candles
Cut Out Witch Shoes

For the cupcakes: Heat oven to 350°F. Line cupcake tins with paper liners. Set aside.In the bowl of a stand mixer or in a large bowl with an electric mixer, combine sugar, flour, cocoa, baking soda, baking powder and salt. Mix on low until dry ingredients are thoroughly combined.Add eggs, buttermilk, coffee, melted dark chocolate, oil and vanilla. Beat on medium speed for about 2 minutes; the batter will be thin.Pour batter into cupcake liners, filling 2/3 full. Bake in preheated oven for 30 to 35 minutes, or until wooden toothpick inserted in center comes out clean.Cool 10 minutes; remove from pans to wire racks. Cool completely.For the frosting: Beat butter in bowl of stand mixer with whisk attachment or in a large bowl with an electric mixer medium-high speed until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add vanilla and almond extract.With mixer on low, slowly add powdered sugar, milk, and salt. Frequently scrape sides and bottom of bowl. Once incorporated, whip frosting for at least 3 minutes on medium high to high, or until light and fluffy. If frosting is too thick to spread, gradually beat in additional milk.To assemble: Tint frosting with a lime green gel color. Use small amounts of coloring at a time as the color can be very intense. Frost cupcakes, and decorate with differing sizes of green edible candies, and google eyeballs. Wilton has a nice variety.For the witches’ legs, I use small red striped candles and attached with shoes with frosting. The shoes cam from cupcake picks, but could be cut from black paper.Recipe inspired by House of Yumm’s Witches’ Brew Cupcakes.

Classic Baked Apples
4 whole Apples (I Used Gala)
1/4 cups Dark Brown Sugar (packed)
1/4 cups Raisins
1/4 cups Chopped Almonds
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/4 teaspoons Cloves
1/4 teaspoons Mace
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Butter, Quartered
3/4 cups Water

Preheat oven to 375ºF and prepare an 8 x 8 baking dish.Rinse and dry apples thoroughly. Use a paring knife to cut out the cores of the apples and use a spoon to scoop out the seeds. Leave about 1/2 inch on the bottom of the apples for a sturdy foundation.Combine brown sugar, raisins, chopped almonds, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, mace and vanilla in a bowl and stir thoroughly. Spoon mixture evenly in each of the apples, then top each apple with one of the quarters of butter.Fill the 8 x 8 dish with the water, then place the apples in it. Bake for 40–45 minutes to really make them tender and the filling bubbly. When done, take them out and baste them with the juices in the pan. Let them cool enough to handle, then serve immediately with either whipped cream or ice cream.

Cookie Stuffed Pumpkin Blondies
3/4 cups Natural Almond Butter
3 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
2/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
1/4 cups Coconut Sugar
1/2 Tablespoons Vanilla Extract
1/2 Tablespoons Apple Cider Vinegar
5 Tablespoons Coconut Flour, Sifted (31g, See Note)
1/2 Tablespoons Pumpkin Pie Spice
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1/4 cups Dairy-free Dark Chocolate Chips
8 Udi's Gluten Free Soft Baked Maple Pecan Chocolate Chip Cookies

Preheat oven to 325ºF and line an 8×8 inch pan with parchment paper, leaving a little bit to hang over the sides of the pan.In a microwave-safe bowl, melt almond butter and maple syrup until smooth and creamy, about 1 minute. Add pumpkin, coconut sugar, vanilla and apple cider vinegar. Using an electric hand mixer, beat until smooth.Add remaining ingredients (except chocolate chips and cookies) into the bowl and stir until well-combined. Finally, stir in chocolate chips.Spread just under half of the batter evenly in the bottom of the prepared pan. Press the cookies into the batter: 2 rows of 3 and one row of 2 cookies that are each broken in half, to fit the pan. Spread the remaining batter over the cookies, covering them entirely. It might seem like the batter won’t cover the cookies but just work with it and it will!Bake until edges are deep golden brown and begin to pull away from the sides, and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, about 50–55 minutes. Let cool completely on the counter.Slice and devour!Notes: As with all gluten-free baking, please weigh your flour. Some brands need 6 tablespoons to make 31g. Do not cut these while still warm, as they won’t hold together as well.

Creamy Vanilla Bean Popsicles
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
1 cup Whole Milk
1 cup Heavy Cream
1 Vanilla Bean (See Note)

In a large bowl, combine sweetened condensed milk, whole milk, and cream. Whisk until well-combined.Slice the vanilla bean lengthwise. Using the back of a small knife, scrape out the vanilla paste (seeds) inside. Add the vanilla to the milks and whisk until well combined.Using a ladle or a vessel with a spout for pouring, carefully pour the mixture into popsicle molds, being careful not to overfill. Cover and place sticks in the molds. Freeze overnight.Note: You can substitute vanilla bean with 1 teaspoon vanilla paste or 1 tablespoon vanilla extract.

Paleo Apple Gluten-Free Coffee Cake
FOR THE FILLING:
2 cups Chopped Apples (320g, Or About 1 1/2 Large Apples)
7 teaspoons Honey
Pinch Of Cinnamon
FOR THE CAKE:
3 cups Almond Flour (300g, See Note)
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Ginger Powder
3 Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Unsweetened Almond Milk
3/4 cups Coconut Sugar
1/3 cups Monkfruit
2 Tablespoons Honey
FOR THE TOPPING:
1/2 Apple

Preheat oven to 350ºF and line the bottom of an 8-inch springform pan with parchment.In a medium sauce pan, on medium/high heat, combine chopped apples, honey and pinch of cinnamon to make the filling. Cook until soft, about 3–4 minutes.Once the apples are soft, lightly mash them with a fork. You want them mostly mashed, but with some bigger chunks for texture. and set aside.For the cake, in a large bowl, combine almond flour, salt, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon and ginger. Mix until well combined. Set aside.In a medium bowl, beat eggs, vanilla, almond milk, coconut sugar, monkfruit, and honey using an electric hand mixer. Pour the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients and mix until well combined.Take apple for the topping and cut into quarters. Cut each quarter into thin slices. Lay the apple slices on their side on the bottom of the prepared springform pan in a spiral shape, so just the inside ends are lightly touching.Pour about half of the batter into the pan and spread carefully, making sure not to move the apple slices around too much. Spoon the apple filling over top and spread evenly. Carefully spoon the remaining filling over top of the apple mixture and spread out evenly. This does require you to be patient and gentle to make sure you don’t end up mixing all the apple filling in with the cake dough.Bake for 40–45 minutes, or until an inserted toothpick comes out clean. Let the cake completely cool in the pan.To serve, run a knife along the edge of the pan before opening the springs, to make sure your cake doesn’t rip in half. Devour!Notes: As always, please weigh your flour to ensure accurate results. I did think the cake was a little on the sweet side, but the hubs and all his coworkers loved it like this. You may want to taste the batter before adding the stevia, keeping in mind that it will get slightly less sweet when baked! You could even add 1/4 cup and then try the batter and add a little more if needed. Do not omit the parchment lining the pan or the cake sticks to the pan and you can’t get it out! The cake freezes beautifully.

Halloween Chocolate Chip Cookie Dough Rice Krispie Treats
FOR THE PUFFED RICE MIXTURE:
3 Tablespoons Butter
16 ounces, weight Mini Marshmallows
1/2 teaspoons Salt
6 cups Puffed Rice Cereal
FOR THE COOKIE DOUGH:
1-1/2 stick Butter, Room Temperature
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
1/3 cups Sugar
3 Tablespoons Milk
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla
3/4 teaspoons Salt
2-1/4 cups Flour
1 cup Mini Chocolate Chips
FOR DECORATING:
11 ounces, weight High Quality White Chocolate Chips (optional)
40 Mini Chocolate Chips, For Eyes (optional)

Add butter to a large pot and melt over medium heat. When melted, reduce heat to low and whisk in marshmallows. Once mixture has completely melted, stir in salt and puffed rice cereal.Line a 9 x 13 inch pan with parchment paper. Press puffed rice mixture into the pan and let set for 30 minutes.Meanwhile, make cookie dough by creaming softened butter with sugars in a medium bowl with an electric mixer. Once pale and fluffy, add milk, vanilla, salt, and flour. Mix until dough forms. Fold in chocolate chips.Spread cookie dough over set puffed rice mixture. Refrigerate 30 minutes, or until cookie dough sets. Slice into squares before serving.To make mummies, melt white chocolate chips in double boiler. Dip rice krispie treats into the melted white chocolate, making sure to coat all sides. Place on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Place treats in refrigerator for 5 minutes for chocolate to set.Fill a small zip top bag with remaining melted chocolate. Snip a tiny bit off one of the bottom corners. Drizzle chocolate over treats in a zig-zag patten to create a mummy look. Add 2 mini chocolate chips for eyes and return to refrigerator for another 5 minutes. Serve, or store in an airtight container for up to 1 week.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Spiced Cider Marshmallows
1 cup Apple Cider (will Be Reduced To 1/2 Cup)
1/2 cups Powdered Sugar
1/2 cups Cornstarch
3 packages (1/4 Oz. Size) Unflavored Gelatin
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Cardamom
1 pinch Cloves
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups Packed Brown Sugar
3/4 cups Maple Syrup
1 Tablespoon Light Corn Syrup
1/2 teaspoons Salt

In a small saucepan, heat apple cider over medium-high heat and simmer until it has reduced by half. Set aside to cool slightly.Combine powdered sugar and cornstarch in a medium bowl and stir to blend.While cider is cooling, line a 9×9 pan with parchment paper. Spray that with cooking spray and lightly dust with some of the powdered sugar and cornstarch mixture.Once cooled, combine reduced cider with gelatin, cinnamon, cardamom, and cloves in the bowl of your stand mixer. Whisk mixture lightly, and set aside to set up while you make the syrup.Stir granulated sugar, brown sugar, maple syrup, corn syrup and salt in a heavy, medium-large, stainless steel saucepan. Place over high heat with a candy thermometer attached to the side of the pan and submerged in the syrup. Do not stir again. Boil until thermometer reads 248ºF.When it reaches 248ºF, very carefully and slowly pour it into the mixer bowl with the whisk attachment running on low speed. Increase speed to medium and beat for 5 minutes. Increase to medium-high speed and beat an additional 3 minutes. Finally, increase to the highest speed and beat for 3 minutes. When you lift the beater from the mixer, it should slowly drip back into the bowl in a thick ribbon. At this point, quickly scrape it into the prepared pan. Coat a silicone spatula in the powdered sugar mixture, and use it to spread the marshmallow evenly into the pan.Sift a couple spoonfuls of the powdered sugar mixture over the pan of smoothed out marshmallow. Set aside for 6 hours (or up to overnight) in a cool, dry place, reserving the remaining coating mix.When you are ready to slice the marshmallows, lift out them out using the parchment paper, and turn onto a clean cutting board. Dust the top (which was the bottom) with some of the reserved coating mixture. Using a sharp knife or pizza cutter, cut the marshmallows into whatever size you desire.Dredge each individual marshmallow thoroughly in the coating mixture before storing in an airtight container. The marshmallows will be good as-is for 3–4 days but can be used melted or stirred into hot chocolate for up to 1 week.

Easy Pear Apple Crisp
4 whole Medium Tart Apples
4 whole Pears
2/3 cups Brown Sugar
3/4 cups Flour
1 cup Oats
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Nutmeg
1 teaspoon Ginger
1/2 cups Butter

Heat oven to 375ºF. Butter an 8 x 8 baking dish. Peel and thinly slice apples and pears; arrange in prepared dish.In a large bowl, place brown sugar. Add flour, oats, and spices. Cut in butter with a fork or pastry blender until crumbly. Sprinkle evely over apples and pears.Bake at 375ºF for 30 minutes or until fruit is fork-tender. Serve with ice cream or cream if desired.

Pumpkin Spiced Swiss Roll
FOR THE CAKE:
3/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice
1/2 teaspoons Ground Mace
1 pinch Salt
1 cup Dark Brown Sugar
2/3 cups Pumpkin Puree
1 teaspoon Pumpkin Spice Extract
3 whole Eggs
FOR THE FILLING:
1 stick Butter, Softened
8 ounces, weight Mascarpone Cheese Softened
1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice
3 cups Powdered Sugar, Plus Additional For Sifting On Top

Preheat oven to 375°F and get out a jelly roll pan. Lightly spray it with cooking spray, which helps the parchment paper stay put. Then line it with parchment paper with enough over hang to be able to lift the cake out of the pan. Lightly spray the parchment paper too. Then whisk the flour, baking powder, baking soda, pumpkin pie spice, mace and salt together in a bowl. In another large mixing bowl, whisk the brown sugar, pumpkin puree, pumpkin spice extract and eggs together for a minute or so to really get some air into it. Then use a spatula to gently fold in the dry ingredients just until they disappear in.Spread the batter evenly in the prepared jelly roll pan and bake it for 13–15 minutes. It should be springy when it’s done. It will obviously be really hot, so use oven mitts to lift the cake out of the pan and gently roll up the cake from the short side to the other short side tightly while it is still in the parchment paper. Set it seam side down on a cooling rack to cool completely. While it cools, make the easy filling. Combine the butter and mascarpone in a bowl and beat them together until fluffy with a hand mixer. Then beat in the pumpkin pie spice. Finally, slowly beat in the powdered sugar until you have a luscious frosting. Cover it and set it in the refrigerator for 30 minutes to let it firm back up a little.When the cake is cool and the frosting has firmed back up, gently unroll the cake and spread the frosting all over it, leaving a border for it to slightly squish out when you roll it back up. Roll it back up and remove the parchment paper as you do it. Wrap the cake in plastic and refrigerate it to completely set for at least an hour or two. When it’s time for dessert, dust the top generously with more powdered sugar. Slice and serve!

Homemade Paleo Almond Joy Bars
36 Raw Almonds
4 cups Unsweetened Coconut Flakes, Firmly Packed (240g)
6 Tablespoons Monkfruit Sweetner (or Granulated Sweetener Of Choice)
12 teaspoons Water
10 teaspoons Coconut Oil, At Room Temperature, Divided (Should Be The Consistency Of Softened Butter)
8 ounces, weight Stevia-sweetened Chocolate (See Notes)

Optional: Heat oven to 375ºF and place the almonds on a baking sheet. Cook until browned and nutty-smelling, about 10 minutes. Set aside.Line an 8×8 inch pan with parchment paper, leaving some to hang over the sides to use as a handle. Place the coconut flakes and monkfruit in a large food processor and pulse until coconut flakes begin to break down, scraping the sides as necessary.Add 8 teaspoons of the water, as well as 8 teaspoons of the room-temperature coconut oil. Blend on high speed for 1 minute, stopping to scrape the sides as necessary (or just hit your food processor while it runs like I do if you’re too lazy to stop and scrape). Add remaining 4 teaspoons water and pulse until mixture turns crumbly.Pour into the prepared pan and press out evenly and very firmly. You want to make sure the bars stick together.Use a very sharp knife to slice into 18 bars (6 rows of 3 bars) as it’s hard to cut these after freezing. Place 2 almonds firmly in the center of each bar. Make sure to really press them in firm, or they will fall out when you dip them. I like to really press my coconut after cutting, and then re-cut any areas that need it, to make sure it’s really pressed in firmly.Chill in the freezer for 1 hour until firm.Once chilled, melt the chocolate and remaining 2 teaspoons coconut oil in a small microwave-safe container using 50% power and in 30-second intervals, stirring between each interval.Quickly dunk each bar into the chocolate, gently shaking all the excess chocolate off, and then place onto a parchment-paper-lined baking sheet. If your almonds fall off, dunk them in a bit of chocolate and use it as a glue to stick it back on the bar before dunking it in chocolate!Store in the refrigerator and devour!Notes: You only need 6 ounces chocolate to cover the bars, which is reflected in the nutritional information. However, if you want to make it a little easier on yourself, melt 8 ounces. Having a little excess makes the bars easier to cover! You don’t have to roast your almonds first, but I think it adds some great flavor so I recommend it! I like to put my container on top of a kitchen towel placed on top of a pancake griddle heated to the lowest setting. This keeps the chocolate smooth and warm!

Mini Heart Apple Pies
1 Pre-made Pie Dough
5 Apples, Peeled And Chopped
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Tablespoons All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1 Egg White, Beaten
Brown Sugar, For Sprinkling

Preheat oven to 450ºF.Roll out pie dough on a floured surface. Cut out dough in desired shapes.In a medium bowl, mix apples, sugar, flour, and cinnamon. Take one pie cutout and fill with a teaspoon or so of filling. Place a second cutout on top and crimp edges together with a fork. Cut 2 to 3 small slits on top of each pie.Brush beaten egg white on top of each little pie. Sprinkle each pie with a little bit of brown sugar. Place pies on a cookie sheet lined with parchment paper.Bake for 10–12 minutes or until tops are golden brown.

Mini Pumpkin Cheesecake Puff Pies
FOR THE MINI PIES:
4 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Room Temperature
1 Egg
1/4 cups Sugar
1/2 cups Packed Pumpkin Puree
1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
12 Pepperidge Farms Puff Pastry Shells, Defrosted And At Room Temperature
FOR THE SALTED CARAMEL TOPPING:
1/2 cups Caramel Squares
2 Tablespoons Heavy Cream (or More As Needed)
1/2 teaspoons Salt

Preheat oven to 375° F.With a hand mixer, whip cream cheese, egg, and sugar until smooth and creamy. Add pumpkin puree, pumpkin pie spice, and vanilla extract. Blend until fully combined.Using your hands or a rolling pin, stretch each puff pastry shell until it is half again as large as the original, striving for an even thickness. ((These shells are designed to puff up high, with a little lift-away cap in the center. Because you don’t want the center to puff up too high, you need to stretch it out and flatten it some.)Line the cups of a muffin pan with the dough, then spoon approximately 2 tablespoon of the filling into each dough cup until all the filling has been used. Bake for 20 minutes, or until the cheesecake filling has set and the crusts are a light golden color.Place on a rack and cool completely in the muffin pan, then transfer to a covered container and refrigerate until ready to serve.Just before serving, melt caramel squares and cream until smooth and somewhat viscous. The mixture should be thick enough to drizzle in streams, but not so thick as to pool after drizzling. Add more cream or some water if necessary to thin the caramel. Stir in the salt.Drizzle the caramel over the chilled mini pies and serve.

Homemade Apple Cinnamon Oatmeal
3-1/4 cups Oatmeal
2 Tablespoons Brown Sugar
10 teaspoons Cinnamon, Divided
5-1/2 cups Almond Milk (unsweetened)
4 Large Apples (Baking Variety), Washed And Dried
1/2 cups Apple Juice Or Water

Preheat oven to 375ºF.In a medium bowl, combine oatmeal, brown sugar, 2 teaspoons cinnamon and almond milk. Set aside.Cut the tops off the apples and use a spoon or melon baller to remove the inside of the apple to make a cup. Sprinkle 1 teaspoon of cinnamon into the bottom of each cup. Put in a baking dish and set aside.Cut up the apple that you scooped out into little pieces. Add to the oatmeal mixture and mix well. Scoop the oatmeal filling into each apple. Sprinkle 1 teaspoon cinnamon on top of each one.Add the apple juice or water into the bottom of the baking dish. Bake for 20 minutes.

Halloween Chocolatines
FOR THE CAKE:
1 stick Butter
1 cup Water
1/2 cups Canola Oil
2 cups Sugar
1/2 cups Cocoa Powder
2 cups Flour
2 whole Eggs
1/2 cups Buttermilk
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE GANACHE:
5 ounces, weight Semi Sweet Chocolate, Chopped Into Small Pieces
1 Tablespoon Butter
1/3 cups Heavy Cream
FOR THE DECORATIONS:
2 ounces, weight White Chocolate
1 container (about 4 Oz. Size) Black Fondant
Sprinkles, For Decorating The Spider

Note: This recipe makes a 9×13 sheet cake, which will then be cut to make individual chocolatines. The cake base is adapted from a recipe by Rebecca Rather.Preheat to oven to 350ºF. Prepare a 9×13 cake pan by lining it in parchment paper and greasing and flouring the sides.In a heavy saucepan, combine butter, water and canola oil and set over medium heat until butter is just melted. Meanwhile, in the large bowl of your mixer, add sugar, cocoa and flour. Pour in the butter mixture and beat until smooth. Mix in eggs one at a time, followed by the buttermilk. Finally, add baking soda, salt and vanilla all at once and mix one final time.Pour cake batter into prepared pan and bake for approximately 30 to 35 minutes. Remove from heat and let cool.Once cake has cooled, remove from the pan and place on a flat smooth surface. I cut my individual cakes using a wide-mouthed glass. My glass had a 3 1/2 inch diameter, but you could use a jar, glass or cookie cutter of roughly a similar size. I found it helped to lightly spray the inside of the glass and edges with butter-flavored cooking spray. Once I pressed the glass down to cut out the cake, I lifted the glass up and put my hand underneath it to catch the cake as it slid slowly out of the glass. I used the same technique to cut out all of the small round cakes.In a small sauce pan over medium low heat, heat chopped semi sweet chocolate and butter. Cutting the chocolate into smaller chunks helps it melt evenly. Meanwhile, heat cream in the microwave until it is warm (I microwaved mine for 40 seconds). Keep an eye on your chocolate. Give it an occasional stir as it melts, and as soon as it does, pull pan off heat and slowly pour in warm cream while stirring the chocolate mixture. Stir until chocolate and cream come together and you get a glossy-looking mixture.While the ganache is still warm, spoon a small amount on each cake and spread evenly using an offset spatula or butter knife. While your chocolate ganache is still warm, heat white chocolate in a microwavable bowl—I heated mine for 30 seconds and then stirred it and then heated it for another 20 seconds. You want the chocolate to melt but you want to make sure it does not burn.Take a plastic pastry bag (they are easy to find at any craft store) and fill it with the melted white chocolate. The trick I use is to put my pastry bag inside a tall narrow glass and then fold the plastic edges of the pastry bag down. The glass will hold the pastry bag and make it easy for you to pour in your white chocolate.Cut a small hole at the very tip of the bag and you are ready to pipe the spider webs. To make the web, pipe a white chocolate spiral on each cake. While it is still warm, take a toothpick and lightly drag it from the center out to form a web. I had a paper towel nearby and cleaned the toothpick end after each time.Next comes the fun part for my girls, because making things out of fondant is like playing with play-dough. Roll 6 little balls of black fondant, which you can buy pre-colored and ready to go from your local craft store. Then roll out some long thin snake-like pieces. To make spider legs, cut 4 even pieces of rolled snakes using scissors or a knife. Then make a bow-tie-like middle by pinching the legs together so you have 8 legs with four on each side. Put the little balls on top on each set of spider legs. I had some colored sprinkles we used to make stripes on our spiders and I used some white dragees to make eyes. If you are running short on time, just get some small plastic spiders. Place a spider on each cake.You will need to keep these cakes in the fridge until you are ready to serve them.

Lemon Shortbread Cookies
FOR THE COOKIE:
1 cup Softened Butter
3/4 cups Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 cups Flour
1/2 cups Cornstarch
1/2 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE DRIZZLE:
1-1/3 cup Powdered Sugar
3 Tablespoons To 4 Tablespoons Lemon Juice
1 whole Lemon, Zested
Water To Thin (if Needed)

Cream butter, powdered sugar, and vanilla in the bowl of a stand mixer.Combine flour, cornstarch, and salt in a medium bowl. Add dry ingredients to wet ingredients and mix on low until well-combined but still crumbly, about 1 minute. Turn mixer to medium and mix for an additional 2–3 minutes, until the dough comes together.Roll the dough out into a 9×12 inch rectangle between 2 pieces of parchment paper. It should end up being about 1/2 to 3/8 inch thick. Transfer the parchment and dough to a baking sheet and refrigerate for about 30 minutes.Preheat oven to 325ºF.After refrigeration, lift dough from the baking sheet and cut it into 1 1/2 inch squares. Place the cold dough on parchment-lined baking sheets. You don’t need much room between them (about 1 inch is enough) because they don’t spread much.Bake for 9–11 minutes, until pale golden brown on the edges. Let cool for 1 minute on the baking sheet before transferring to a wire cooling rack to cool completely.For the drizzle, mix powdered sugar, lemon juice, and lemon zest in a small bowl. Add water, if needed, to create a consistency that is loose enough to drizzle. Use a spoon to drizzle the icing over the cooled shortbread cookies. Let the drizzle harden before storing in an airtight container.Notes: When you start mixing, the dough will look crumbly. Continue to mix until the dough comes together—it will! Try not to overwork the dough once you roll it out or to re-roll because it will get bumpy. However, if you must, the drizzle will cover some imperfections!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Authentic Dutch Apple Pie (Appeltaart)
FOR THE ALMOND PASTE:
250 grams Whole Almonds
250 grams Confectioners Sugar
1 Large Egg, Beaten
FOR THE RAISINS:
120 grams Golden Raisins
1 cup Very Hot Water
2 Tablespoons Spiced Rum (optional)
FOR THE FILLING:
900 grams 1/4-inch Sliced Peeled And Seeded Gala Apples (avoid Overly Juicy Varieties)
4 teaspoons Granulated Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/2 Lemon, Juiced
FOR THE PASTRY:
360 grams All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
227 grams Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature
180 grams Light Brown Sugar
Salt And White Pepper
1/4 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cardamom
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1 Tablespoon Water (or Up To 2 Tablespoons)
1 whole Egg, Yolk And White And Beaten Separately
1 Tablespoon Cornstarch

For the almond paste (use 1/3 for this recipe and freeze the rest for another time): Blanch almonds by soaking them in boiling water for a few minutes. Remove from hot water and cover with ice to cool. Slip brown skins off. Place blanched almonds on a sheet tray and put into a 350ºF oven to dry completely and toast slightly until they smell fragrant. Cool completely and grind in a food processor.Combine ground almonds, powdered sugar, and beaten egg. Mixture should be somewhat sticky. Store the paste in the fridge for at least a week for the flavor to develop.For the raisins (begin the day before baking): Plump raisins in very hot water for 1 hour. Drain water and add spiced rum; soak overnight.For the filling: Combine apples, sugar, cinnamon, and lemon juice; set aside while preparing pastry.For the pastry: In the bowl of a food processor, combine flour, baking powder, butter, brown sugar, salt, pepper, nutmeg, cardamom, and cinnamon. Add 1-2 tablespoons of water and process until dough forms into a ball. Divide pastry into 2 unequal portions (the larger portion should be approximately 2/3 of the dough; the smaller 1/3).To assemble: Preheat oven to 375ºF. Prepare a 9-inch springform pan with nonstick cooking spray and line the bottom with parchment if desired.Press large ball of pastry dough into the bottom and up the sides of the springform pan. Brush the bottom pastry with beaten egg yolk and sprinkle with cornstarch.Pour 1/2 the apples into the prepared pastry. Add rum-soaked raisins (including any remaining rum) and crumble about 1/3 of the homemade almond paste over the apples. Add remaining apples. Decorate the top of appeltaart with remaining pastry by rolling into a snake shape and pressing into a lattice pattern (no need to weave the lattice together, just press in place). Brush lattice with beaten egg white.Wrap bottom of springform with foil to prevent leaking juices from dripping in your oven. Loosely tent top with foil. Bake for 45 minutes, uncover and bake for an additional 15–20 minutes. Cool completely before unmolding.Note: Commercially available almond paste can be used in place of the homemade version included in this recipe.

Chocolate Espresso Hazelnut Cake
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1/2 cups Finely Crushed Hazelnuts
1/2 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
Pinch Sea Salt
2 whole Eggs
6 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, melted
1/2 cups Steviva Fructevia Natural Sweetener
1/4 cups Espresso Or 1/4 Cup Dark Coffee
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE FROSTING:
3/4 cups Chocolate Chips
2 Tablespoons Heavy Cream

Preheat oven to 375°F. Spray an 8-inch round cake pan with cooking spray. Set aside.In a large bowl, whisk the dry ingredients to combine.In a second bowl, add remaining cake ingredients and whisk until mixture is uniform. Pour wet ingredients into the dry ingredients and fold until batter is creamy. The batter will look slightly lumpy from the hazelnut bits.Pour batter in to the cake pan and bake for 23–25 minutes on the top rack (assuming the heat is coming from below). Insert a toothpick in the center to make sure it is cooked through. Remove cake from oven and place it on a cooling rack.Meanwhile, melt chocolate chips in the microwave or use a glass bowl over the double boiler, stirring until chocolate chips are completely melted. Add cream and whisk until chocolate absorbs the cream, forming into a thick rich and spreadable frosting.Spread frosting on and/or around the cake, if you like. Add chocolate sprinkles, fresh berries or toasted granola.

3-ingredient Coconut Ladoo
4 cups Unsweetened Shredded Coconut
4 whole Green Cardamom Pods
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk

Set a heavy bottomed or nonstick pan on medium low heat. Add coconut and dry roast until fragrant but not browned.While coconut is roasting, break apart cardamom pods. Take the seeds out and grind the seeds into a powder. Add sweetened condensed milk and cardamom powder to the coconut and mix well. Keep stirring and mixing until the mixture comes together, approximately 2 to 3 minutes. Turn heat off and let mixture cool for 5 minutes or so.Line a cookie sheet with parchment or silicone mat and fill a bowl with room temperature water. To form the ladoos, rub your hands with water, take about 1 tablespoonful of coconut mixture and form it into a ball. Lay it on the cookie sheet. Repeat until all the coconut mixture is used up.This recipe should make close to 50 bite-size ladoos. Kids and grown-ups alike will love these.Notes: You have to form the ladoos while the coconut mixture is still warm. As the mixture cools, it will get harder to form it. Refrigerate the ladoos for about 1 hour and then store in an airtight container in the refrigerator. Best served at room temperature. You can also form the mixture into burfee by pouring the coconut mixture onto a greased baking sheet, spreading it in an even layer. Refrigerate for 1 hour and then cut into squares.

Lyle’s Golden Syrup Cookies
3/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Soda
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
7 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Tablespoons Lyle's Golden Syrup
1/2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
1 cup Old Fashioned Oats

In a small bowl, whisk flour, baking soda, and baking powder, set aside.In a medium saucepan, heat butter, sugar, and golden syrup until melted and smooth. Remove from heat and stir in pure vanilla extract. Add flour mixture and oats and stir well to combine. Place cookie dough in an airtight container and chill for 30 minutes.Preheat oven to 325ºF and place rack in the center position. Line two half sheet pans with silpat liners (parchment doesn’t work well for these cookies—visit my blog to see why).Use a #50 scoop to portion dough, 6 cookies at a time, evenly spaced on sheet pan. Bake for 8 minutes; remove from oven and allow to cool for 5 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely. Store in airtight container.Note: I suggest baking only one tray of cookies at a time, being sure to place chilled dough on room temperature (not hot/warm) sheet trays.

Blackberry Almond Thumbprint Cookies
1 Tablespoon Flaxmeal
3 Tablespoons Water
2 cups Almond Flour
1/3 cups Coconut Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/2 cups Blackberry Chia Jam, Or Jam Of Choice
1/4 cups Drippy Almond Butter For Drizzle

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and set aside.Make the flax egg by mixing flaxmeal with water. Let sit in refrigerator for 5 minutes.Once flax egg is set, remove bowl from refrigerator and add almond flour, coconut sugar, salt, and coconut oil. Mix until a dough forms.Roll dough into 1-inch balls and place on prepared baking sheet. Flatten each ball of dough slightly with your hands. Use thumb or back of a wooden spoon to make a small indentation in the middle of each cookie. Fill each cookie with ½ teaspoon jam.Bake 10–11 minutes. Cool on cookie rack. Drizzle with almond butter and enjoy!

Maple Caramelized Figs
1 cup Sugar
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
1/4 cups Water
10 whole Figs, Quartered

Bring sugar, maple and water to a boil. Give it a quick stir to dissolve the sugar. Cook, swirling pan occasionally (but no longer stirring), until caramel turns golden amber.Remove from heat and toss in figs. Cover until cool.Transfer to a small air tight glass bowl and store in the fridge. Serve over pancakes, ice cream, yogurt, pudding, overnight oats, etc.

Pumpkin Pie Bites
1/4 cups Pumpkin Puree
1/4 cups Honey
1/2 cups Jiff Whipped Pumpkin Spice Peanut Butter (or Regular Peanut Butter, Slightly Melted)
3/4 cups Old-fashioned Oats, Ground In Food Processor
1 Tablespoon Chia Seeds
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a large bowl, combine pumpkin, honey, and peanut butter. Add oats, chia seeds, cinnamon, and pumpkin pie spice. Stir well.Using a small spoon or scoop, roll into balls. Refrigerate for 15–30 minutes, or until firm, if needed. Enjoy!

Pear Apple Oatmeal Crisp
FOR THE OATMEAL TOPPING:
3/4 cups Old Fashioned Rolled Oats
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
3 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
3 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1 pinch Salt
FOR THE APPLE PEAR BASE:
1 Apple, Peeled And Diced Into Small Pieces
1 Pear, Peel And Diced Into Small Pieces
1 teaspoon Honey
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
1 pinch Salt

In a small bowl, mix topping ingredients. Set aside.Preheat oven to 375ºF.In an 8×8 inch baking dish or medium size bowl, mix the ingredients for the apple pear base.Top evenly with oatmeal topping.Bake for 17 minutes or until topping is golden brown and sides are bubbly. Allow to cool for a few minutes and serve as is or with a scoop of your favorite ice cream!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Pumpkin Spice Granola Cookies
1 cup Unsalted Butter, Softened
3/4 cups Packed Dark Brown Sugar
3/4 cups Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 Eggs
2-1/4 cups Organic Whole Wheat Pastry Flour
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 Tablespoon Pumpkin Spice
2 cups Pumpkin Spice Granola
1 cup Cinnamon Chips

Preheat oven to 375°F, and line a baking sheet with parchment paper.In a large bowl, beat butter, brown sugar, sugar, and vanilla extract until creamy. While continuing to beat, add eggs and beat until incorporated.In a different bowl, mix flour, salt, baking soda, and pumpkin spice. Gradually add dry mixture to the batter, beating until well-blended. Add pumpkin spice granola and cinnamon chips and mix well.Using spoons or an ice cream scoop, portion out batter onto your prepared baking sheet, about 2 inches apart. Bake at 375°F for 8–10 minutes, until lightly browned.Let cool on baking sheet for a few minutes, then remove to a cooling rack to cool completely.

Caramel Apple Crisp
4 Granny Smith Apples, Peeled, Cored, Thinly Sliced
2 Tablespoons Light Brown Sugar
1 Tablespoon White Sugar
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Nutmeg
3 Tablespoons Caramel Sauce, Plus More For Topping, If Desired
FOR THE TOPPING:
1/4 cups Old Fashioned Oats
1/4 cups Rice Krispies Cereal
1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
3 Tablespoons Light Brown Sugar
3 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, melted
1 teaspoon Cinnamon

Preheat oven to 375°F. Lightly spray an 8×8 square baking dish with cooking spray. Alternatively, you can use four 5-inch mini cast iron skillets. Set aside.In a medium bowl, combine sliced apples, brown sugar, white sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg. Toss to coat.Pour fruit mixture in prepared baking dish. Drizzle with caramel sauce.To make the topping, in a separate bowl, combine oats, cereal, flour, brown sugar, butter and cinnamon. Stir to mix well until crumbly. Sprinkle topping over apples.Bake 35–40 minutes or until fruit is tender and topping is golden brown. Remove from oven and let cool. Enjoy!

Peanut Butter Chocolate Chunk Cookies
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 cup Unsalted Butter, Softened
1 cup Peanut Butter
1-1/2 cup Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
3/4 cups Chocolate Chunk Pieces

Preheat oven to 350ºF.In a medium size bowl, whisk flour, baking soda, and baking powder. Set aside.In the bowl of a stand mixer using the paddle attachment, beat butter and peanut butter until smooth and creamy. Add both sugars, and beat until light and fluffy. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Add vanilla.Slowly add flour mixture until just combined. Fold in chocolate chunks. Cover the bowl and let cool in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.Scoop onto parchment-lined cookie sheet and bake for 12–14 minutes or until edges are golden brown. Allow cookies to cool for 5 minutes before removing from baking sheet.

Soupy Chicken Pot Pie
FOR THE FILLING:
2 pounds Boneless, Skinless Chicken Thighs, Trimmed Of Excess Fat And Cut Into 1-inch Cubes
1 cup Onions, Chopped
2 cloves Garlic, Minced
1/4 cups Butter
2 cups Mixed Frozen Veggies
1/4 cups Flour
2 cups Chicken Broth
1/2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
1 Tablespoon Fresh Thyme
1 teaspoon Fresh Rosemary, Chopped
1/4 teaspoons Celery Seed
1 teaspoon Mrs Dash Table Blend
Salt And Fresh Cracked Pepper
2 Tablespoons Fresh Parsley, Chopped
FOR THE CRUST:
2 Large Eggs, Divided
5 Tablespoons Milk
1 teaspoon White Vinegar
1-1/4 cup Shortening
3 cups Flour
1 teaspoon Salt
2 Tablespoons Water

Sauté chicken, onion and garlic in butter until cooked through and aromatic. Add flour and stir until it forms a paste around the cooked ingredients. Add remaining ingredients except parsley and cook until it thickens to the consistency of a hearty cream of potato soup or a chowder.Remove from heat and allow to cool to room temperature or at least lukewarm. When cooled, stir in the fresh parsley.While filling is cooling, prepare the crust. Whisk 1 egg, milk, and vinegar until well blended.In a large bowl, cut shortening into flour and salt until mixture resembles pea-sized crumbles. Add the milk and egg mixture, pressing and stirring until the dough clumps together cohesively.Quickly shape into an oblong with your hands, wrap in plastic wrap and chill for about 1 hour in the refrigerator.Preheat oven to 375°F.When filing has cooled and dough is chilled, cut dough ball in half and roll one half out for the bottom crust. Line a deep-dish pie plate with the crust, then pour the filling into the prepared shell.Roll out the top crust, top the pie, cut any excess crust from the edges, seal with a fork. Mix the remaining egg and water to form an egg wash. Brush the egg wash over the top crust. Then vent by cutting some symmetrical slits into the top crust.Place on a metal baking sheet and bake for 40 minutes or until the crust is golden brown. Allow pie to cool for about 15 minutes. Serve pie wedges and soupy filling over a bed of Brazilian-style white rice.

Apple Crumble Thumbprint Cookies
1 can (20 Oz. Size) Apple Pie Filling
1 cup Flour
1-1/4 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Cloves
1/4 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/4 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Butter, Softened
1 cup Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Sugar
1 Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla
3 cups Oats
1/2 cups Finely Chopped Nuts

Preheat oven to 350°F. Line baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats.Pour out pie filling onto a cutting board. With a sharp knife, chop the apples in the filling into small chunks. Scrape off all the pie filling into a small bowl.In another small bowl, whisk flour, cinnamon, baking soda, cloves, nutmeg, and salt.In a large mixing bowl, beat butter, brown sugar, and sugar until well combined. Beat in egg and vanilla. With a spoon, stir in flour mixture, then oats.Form level tablespoons of dough into balls and roll in chopped nuts. Place on baking sheets and make an indent in each ball with the back of a round measuring teaspoon (or something similar sized). Gently squeeze dough together on the sides where there might have been any cracks so the pie filling does not seep out during baking.Fill each indent with a generous teaspoon of pie filling. (You may have a small amount of pie filling left. You can use it to top a pancake, waffle, ice cream, or pudding.)Bake 11–12 minutes, until edges are set. Let cool on baking sheets 5 minutes before moving cookies directly onto a cooling rack. Store completely cooled cookies in a covered container, placing waxed paper between each layer of cookies.

Lebanese Mahalepi with Figs (Milk Pudding) with Orange Blossom Syrup
1-1/2 cup Cornflour
8-1/2 cups Whole Milk, Divided
1 teaspoon Mastic Resin
2 teaspoons Sugar
2 cups Heavy Cream
2 cups Crushed Pistachios (unsalted)
FOR THE SYRUP:
3 cups Sugar
1-1/2 cup Water
4 Tablespoons Blossom Water

To make the pudding, whisk cornflour in 1 cup milk until dissolved. Set aside. Crush resin in sugar and set aside.Add remaining milk to a large heavy bottom pot over medium heat. Bring to a boil, mixing occasionally to prevent scorching. Once milk comes to a boil, stir in dissolved cornflour. Continue stirring until milk thickens.Remove from heat and stir in the crushed mastic resin. Gradually add cream and mix until well-incorporated.Pour pudding into individual bowls or in a large casserole dish. Allow pudding to cool before placing in refrigerator to set.For the syrup, add sugar and water to a medium size pot over medium high heat. Bring to boil. Once the sugar water comes to a boil, stir in blossom water and reduce heat. Simmer 5 minutes. Pour syrup into a jar and refrigerate.Serve cold pudding with syrup and topped with crushed pistachios.Note: You can also serve this with fig syrup. To make fig syrup, add 1 cup of the orange blossom syrup to a pot along with 8 peeled and sliced figs. Simmer, about 10 minutes, or until figs begin to burst. Gently crush figs with the back of a fork. Pour syrup into a jar and refrigerate until ready to serve.

Pumpkin Chocolate Chip Pecan Cookies
1 cup Old Fashioned Rolled Oats
1/3 cups Chocolate Chips, Plus More For Decorating
1/2 cups Chopped Pecans
2 Tablespoons Vanilla Protein Powder
1 pinch Sea Salt
1 cup Pumpkin Puree
1 whole Egg
1/4 cups Honey
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Coconut Oil

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Prepare 2 medium sheet pans, spray with cooking oil and set aside.In a large bowl, mix dry ingredients (oats, cookies, pecans, protein powder, salt). In a separate bowl, whisk remaining ingredients (wet ingredients) until uniform.Pour half the pumpkin mix into bowl with dry ingredients and stir using a wooden spoon or silicone spatula. Then add in remaining ingredients, folding until fully combined.Roll the dough into 12 large balls, place on a cookie sheet and with the back of a spoon, press it down to flatten the cookies. Top with remaining chocolate chips.Bake for 15–17 minutes, until bottom of the cookies start to brown. Remove from oven and let cool on a wire rack to harden for storage.

Pumpkin Pie Ice Cream
2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
14 ounces, fluid Sweetened, Condensed Milk
3/4 cups Pumpkin Puree
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla
1 teaspoon Pumpkin Spice
1 cup Crushed Hard Cookies, Such Graham Crackers Or Biscuits, Divided

Using a mixer, either stand or handheld, whip whipping cream for around 5 minutes until peaks form. While it still going, add sweetened condensed milk. Finally, add pumpkin puree, vanilla and pumpkin spice. Mix until combined and turn off mixer.In a resealable bag, crush cookies or graham crackers. In the same bowl you used to mix filling, add 3/4 of the crushed cookies into the filling. Place into a loaf pan. Finally, add the remaining 1/4 cup cookies on top.Place into the freezer for 6 hours to overnight. Enjoy!

Spiced Pear Pie
FOR THE PEACH FILLING:
5 To 6 Fresh Pears
1/4 cups Packed Brown Sugar
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Tablespoons Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Cinnamon
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 teaspoon Nutmeg
FOR THE CRUST:
2 whole Pie Crusts, Unbaked
1 Egg
1 Tablespoon Granulated Sugar

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Peel, core and slice pears. Slices should be about 1/4 inch thick. Add pear slices to a medium-sized bowl. Add all other filling ingredients and stir well until evenly combined. (I really wish I had more to write about for the filling prep but that’s really it! Not a bad problem to have, I suppose.)Line pie pan with the bottom pie crust. Evenly spread spiced pear filling on top of the bottom crust so it is nice and level. Gently lay the top pie crust over the pie filling and crimp the edges. If you are not doing a cut-out crust design as shown, add about 4 to 5 vent slits in the center of the pie to allow the steam to escape.For the crust topping, beat egg. Using a pastry brush, gently brush the beaten egg onto the crust. Don’t miss a spot! This step makes your crust a pretty golden brown—we eat with our eyes first (judgmental I know, but it’s true!). Evenly sprinkle granulated sugar on the top of the pie. That’s it! You’re done, easy as pie.Bake at 350ºF for 1 hour and serve warm or at room temperature. As with all pies, don’t cut it straight after removing it from the oven, else your slices will fall apart. Alternatively, you can grab the whole pie pan and dig in with a fork, which is my husband’s go-to serving method.

Pumpkin Bars with Cream Cheese Frosting
FOR THE BARS:
4 Eggs
1-2/3 cup Sugar
1 cup Oil
15 ounces, weight Canned Pumpkin
2 cups Flour
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Salt
FOR THE FROSTING:
8 ounces, fluid Cream Cheese, Softened
1 stick Butter
1 teaspoon Vanilla
2 cups Powdered Sugar

In a mixer on medium speed, combine eggs, sugar, oil, and pumpkin.In a separate bowl, mix dry ingredients: flour, cinnamon, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Add dry ingredients to the pumpkin mixture. Mix on low speed until combined.Pour batter into a greased 9×13 inch pan and smooth out the surface. Bake at 350°F for 30–35 minutes. Let cool completely before frosting bars.For the frosting: In a mixer over medium speed, combine cream cheese and butter until smooth. Mix in vanilla extract. On low speed, add powdered sugar until completely combined. Spread onto cooled bars.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Almond Orange Biscotti
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 cup Sugar
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Salt
5 Eggs, Divided
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Orange Zest
1 cup Whole Almonds, Toasted
1 Tablespoon Water
Chocolate Chips, As Needed To Dip Biscotti (1-2 Cups Depending On How You Dip Them)

Preheat oven to 350ºF.In a large bowl, combine flour, sugar, baking powder, cinnamon, and salt. Beat in 4 eggs, vanilla, and orange zest until it forms a ball. It will start out looking rather crumbly, so be patient! Stir in toasted almonds.With clean, damp hands, form 2 logs on parchment-lined baking sheets. Each log should be about 4 inches wide and 3/4 inch tall.Whisk together remaining egg and water for egg wash. Brush each log with egg wash.Bake for 25 minutes, or until golden brown on top, rotating pans at the halfway point. Transfer logs to a wire rack and let cool for about 20 minutes.Use a large serrated knife to cut 3/4 inch slices. I cut mine on the bias, or diagonal, but you can also cut straight across. Place the slices, standing up, on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Bake for another 25 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack to cool.Melt chocolate chips (I used a double boiler but you could also microwave them, checking and stirring every 30 seconds). Dip biscotti in chocolate and let cool on parchment paper.Store in an airtight container.Notes: To toast the almonds, I just put the whole almonds in a dry skillet over medium-low heat and toasted them until they started to become fragrant I dipped my biscotti in chocolate along the bottom edge but you could also dunk them in the chocolate (like you would dunk it into a drink). I’ve even seen some with drizzle on them. I like the bottom coated because you get a little chocolate in every bite but it doesn’t cover up the cookie so you can still dunk it in your drink!

Baked Banana Custard
3 whole Bananas
5 teaspoons Cane Sugar, Divided
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Lemon Juice
1-1/2 cup Crushed Graham Crackers
2 cups Milk
3 whole Eggs

Heat oven to 350ºF. Butter an 8 x 8 x 2 baking dish.Mash bananas. Add 2 teaspoons of the cane sugar, cinnamon and lemon juice. Mix well and pour into the prepared baking dish. Cover with crushed graham cracker crumbs.Beat eggs with remaining 3 teaspoons cane sugar.Heat milk to lukewarm over medium heat in a small saucepan. Beat into eggs. Pour over the banana mixture.Bake at 350ºF for about 30 to 35 minutes or until custard is set and a butter knife inserted close to center comes out clean. Cool and refrigerate.

Eggless Chocolate Mousse Cake
FOR THE CHOCOLATE CAKE:
1 cup Granulated Sugar
3/4 cups Plus 2 Tablespoons, All-purpose Flour
6 Tablespoons Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
3/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
3/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cups Sour Cream, Room Temperature
1/4 cups Canola Oil
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Boiling Water
FOR THE CHOCOLATE MOUSSE:
200 grams Dark Chocolate
1 Tablespoon Unsalted Butter
1/4 cups Espresso
1 Tablespoon Granulated Sugar
1-1/2 cup Heavy Cream
FOR THE CHOCOLATE GANACHE:
50 grams Dark Chocolate, Cut Into Small Chunks
2 Tablespoons Heavy Cream
FOR THE GARNISH:
2 Tablespoons Chocolate Shavings Or Sprinkles

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a 12 x 17 inch baking pan with parchment paper.In a large bowl, mix sugar, flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda and salt.Spoon in sour cream, and pour in oil and vanilla. Mix with a wooden spoon until just combined. Pour in boiling water and slowly mix until smooth and liquid.Pour batter into prepared pan. Spread evenly. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until springy to touch. Let cakes cool completely.Use a 2-inch cookie cutter to cut out cake circles and place them on the bottoms of a mini cheesecake pan with removable bottoms.To prepare mousse, make a double boiler and bring water to a soft simmer. Put chocolate, butter, espresso and sugar in a heat-resistant bowl and leave to melt. Let cool to room temperature.Whip heavy cream until it becomes stiff. Reserve 1 cup of whipped cream for topping. Add remaining whipped cream to the chocolate mixture and fold with a spatula until evenly combined.Pour the chocolate mixture evenly into the mini cake pan. Jiggle to lightly level the top. Keep in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours.To prepare ganache, melt chocolate and heavy cream in microwave on high in 20-second intervals, stirring in between, until completely melted and smooth. Let cool slightly.Gently push mini cakes up from the bottoms to remove from pan. Place the cakes on serving plate(s). Pour ganache over the top of the cakes. Pipe the reserved whipped cream on top, and garnish with chocolate shavings or sprinkles.

Fluffy Mocha Frosting
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature
1/2 cups Salted Butter, Room Temperature
1 cup Natural Unsweetened Cocoa
2-1/2 teaspoons Espresso Powder
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
5 cups Powdered Sugar
5 Tablespoons Milk, Or More As Needed

Beat butter until creamy. Beat in cocoa, mixing until combined. Stir espresso into vanilla extract then mix into the cocoa/butter mixture. Scrape down sides and bottom of bowl.Add powdered sugar, 1 cup at a time, alternating with milk. Beat each time until combined, scraping down the bowl as needed. Once all of the milk and sugar has been added, increase mixer speed and beat until fluffy. Add more sugar or milk as needed for consistency.

Lighter Banana Cream Pie
1 whole 9 Inch Baked Pie Crust
2-1/3 Tablespoons Cane Sugar, Divided
2 Tablespoons Cornstarch
2-1/2 cups Skim Milk
3 whole Eggs, Separated
1 Tablespoon Vanilla
2 Tablespoons Butter
3 whole Bananas
1/4 teaspoons Cream Of Tartar

Heat oven to 375ºF. If needed, prepare and bake the pie shell; let cool.Mix 2 tablespoons cane sugar and cornstarch in a 2-quart saucepan. Gradually stir in milk. Cook over medium heat, whisking constantly, until mixture thickens and boils.Separate eggs; place yolks in a small bowl and place whites in a large metal bowl for the meringue later. Stir 2 or 3 tablespoons of hot mixture into the egg yolks while whisking. Pour yolks back into the milk mixture. Stir in vanilla and butter. Heat to boiling, stirring constantly, for 1 minute. Set aside.Peel and slice bananas. Arrange in the cooled pie crust. Evenly pour the custard over the bananas.Prepare the meringue. (Always use clean, dry beaters and a metal or glass bowl, not plastic, for a successful meringue). Add cream of tartar to the egg whites. Beat on high until soft peaks form. Add remaining 1 teaspoon (or 1/3 tablespoon) cane sugar and continue beating until stiff peaks form.Spoon meringue evenly over the custard filling. Bake at 375ºF for 12 to 15 minutes or until meringue is nicely browned.Let cool and refrigerate several hours.

Chocolate Fudge Caramel Swirl Brownies
3 ounces, fluid Unsweetened Baker's Chocolate, Chopped
1 stick Unsalted Butter
1-1/3 cup Granulated Sugar
2 Large Eggs
3 teaspoons Vanilla Extract, Divided
1/2 teaspoons Maldon Sea Salt, Plus Extra For Sprinkling On Top
2/3 cups All-purpose Flour
3 cups Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
14 ounces, fluid Full-fat Sweetened Condensed Milk
25 Caramels, Unwrapped
2 Tablespoons Heavy Cream

Preheat oven to 350°F. Line an 8×8-inch square baking pan with parchment or foil and spray with a nonstick cooking spray.In a medium heatproof bowl over gently simmering water, melt chocolate and butter together until smooth. Take the bowl off the heat. Whisk in sugar, then eggs, one at a time, then 1 teaspoon vanilla and salt. Stir in flour with a rubber spatula and pour the batter into prepared pan, spreading until it’s even. Bake for 25 to 30 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out batter-free. Allow the brownies to cool in the pan, on a wire rack until cool to the touch. While the brownies are cooling, prepare the fudge and caramel.Combine the chocolate chips and the sweetened condensed milk in another heatproof bowl. Place over a pan of simmering water, and stir until the chocolate is completely melted and sweetened condensed milk is incorporated. Stir in remaining 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract.Pour over the top of the cooled brownies, smoothing until flat.Quickly rinse out and dry the bowl. Combine the unwrapped caramels and heavy cream in the bowl. Follow the same stovetop melting directions or microwave for 30 seconds then stir for 30 seconds. Return the mixture to the microwave and microwave in bursts of 15 seconds stirring for 30 seconds in between until completely melted.When the caramel sauce is melted and smooth, pour over the chocolate fudge evenly. If you want a chocolate caramel swirl fudge like I did for the photos, prepare the two layers at the same time, lay down the chocolate fudge, and then immediately pour the caramel over in vertical lines. Use a butter knife swirl the layers together.If desired, top the caramel with sea salt. (highly recommended)Cover tightly and place in the fridge to set up overnight or at least an hour and a half.When you’re ready to serve, cut the brownies with a sharp knife. You can also wet it with hot water if it’s too hard to cut into.Store any leftover brownies in an airtight container in the fridge.

Strawberry Rose Macarons
200 grams Almond Flour
200 grams Powdered Sugar
5 whole Egg Whites, At Room Temperature
1/2 teaspoons Rose Water
1/2 teaspoons Red Food Coloring
1 cup Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Water
Strawberry Jam, As Needed For Filling

Get out two sheet trays and line them with either silicone mats that have macaron templates on them, or parchment paper. If using parchment paper, draw 30 equal circles on each piece to make yourself a template and turn them over to have the ink face down. Take the almond flour and powdered sugar and press them through a fine mesh strainer into a large mixing bowl. This will take a little time and elbow grease but it is completely necessary for the texture of the cookies. Whisk them together in the bowl to blend them. Then pour in half of the egg white liquid, the rose water and red food coloring. Use a spatula to fold and mash the mixture together into a uniform paste. Set the paste aside.Combine the sugar and water in a small saucepan and heat it up over medium high heat. Use a candy thermometer to make sure it reaches 243ºF. While it heats up, set up a stand mixer with a whisk attachment and pour the remaining egg whites into it. Whip up the egg whites on high speed until they hold stiff peaks. Turn the speed to low and keep whipping the egg whites while the sugar comes to temperature on the stove. When the sugar reaches temperature, slowly and carefully pour it into the stand mixer with the egg whites and let it get mixed in. Turn the speed to high and let the meringue whisk together thoroughly until it becomes white, shiny and comes down to room temperature for about 10 minutes.Take the meringue and fold it in thoroughly with the paste in the mixing bowl. You will need to mash it together a little too to break up the paste into the meringue. It should become a smooth, shiny and pretty pink mixture. Scoop half of it into a pastry bag with a 1/2-inch opening. Hold the opening over the center of the first circle on your sheet tray template and gently squeeze until it is filled. If there is a little point on top don’t worry, it will dissolve. Fill the first sheet this way, then repeat with the second half of meringue on the other sheet tray.Now this is the heart stopping but necessary part. Lift each filled sheet tray about 8 inches above the counter and let it drop onto the counter. This will get out all of the air bubbles to make a really smooth, shiny top. Let the trays sit out for 30 minutes to dry out and firm up a little. When the 30 minutes are almost up, fit a rack in the center of the oven and preheat it to 350ºF. Bake the first tray for 6 minutes, then rotate the tray to ensure even baking and let them bake for another 6–7 minutes. Take that tray out and let the cookies cool completely and bake the second tray in the same way. Let that tray cool completely too.Assemble the macarons by spreading about a teaspoon of strawberry jam on the flat side of one of the cookies. Then place another cookie of the same size on top and gently twist to make sure the filling spreads to the edge and the sandwich holds together. Chill them in the refrigerator in sealed containers until you are ready to serve them! Let them sit out for a few minutes before you serve them and enjoy.

Grilled Figs with Orange-Scented Honey
1 pound Fresh Figs
1/4 cups Honey
1/2 teaspoons Orange Zest
1/4 teaspoons Vanilla Extract

Preheat the grill to high heat.Slice figs in half and spray the insides with nonstick spray. Place the fig halves on the hot grill, cut-side down. Grill, uncovered, for 2–3 minutes or until they are warm and grill marks have formed.Meanwhile, place honey in a small skillet with the orange zest and vanilla extract. Heat gently, over medium-low heat until the honey has loosened up and the mixture is warm. Set aside.Serve the figs with a drizzle of honey

Grilled Pluots with Yogurt and Almond-Ginger Brittle
4 Pluots, Or Another Type Of Stone Fruit
2/3 cups Sliced Almonds
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
1 Tablespoon Minced Candied Or Crystallized Ginger
1 pinch Sea Salt
1 cup Vanilla Yogurt

Preheat grill to high heat.Cut fruit in half and remove pits. Spray inside of the fruit with nonstick spray.When grill is heated, place pluot halves on the grill, cut-side down. Grill, uncovered, for 2–3 minutes or until fruit is warm and nice grill marks have formed.Meanwhile, place almonds, syrup, ginger, and salt in a small skillet. Cook over medium heat for about 5 minutes. The syrup will bubble and somewhat evaporate, leaving a sticky nut and ginger mixture. Transfer the brittle to a plate to cool.Serve grilled pluots with a couple spoonfuls of yogurt and a sprinkle of brittle.

Carrot Cake with Apricot Filling
FOR THE FROSTING:
8 ounces, fluid Cream Cheese, Room Temperature
1/4 cups Sweet Butter, Room Temperature
1-1/2 cup Powdered Sugar
1 cup Chopped Pecans, For Decorating (optional)
FOR THE CAKE:
2 cups Flour, Plus More For The Pans
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
3/4 teaspoons Salt
3 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 cup Full-fat Sour Cream
1 cup Sugar
1 cup Brown Sugar
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
3 Eggs
3 cups Shredded Carrots
1/2 cups Apricot Preserves

Preheat oven to 350°F.Whisk frosting ingredients with an electric mixer until thick and creamy, scraping the sides often. Set in the refrigerator to chill.Grease and flour two 9-inch spring form pans. Set aside.Combine flour, cinnamon, salt, and baking soda in a bowl and whisk to blend. Set aside.Whisk sour cream, sugars, and vanilla extract until combined. Add eggs one at a time. When well-blended, add dry ingredients a bit at a time, scraping the sides often. Continue mixing until a smooth batter forms. Then fold in shredded carrots with a spatula until everything is well distributed.Pour batter equally into the prepared pans and bake for 25 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the middle comes out clean. Allow cakes to cool in the pan for about 10 minutes, then remove from pans and allow cakes to completely cool directly on the racks.Spread one cake with apricot preserves. Top with the second cake, then cover both with frosting. Decorate cake with chopped pecans, if desired.

Easy Pumpkin Danish
1 package (17 1/3 Oz. Size) Frozen Puff Pastry Sheets, Thawed
1 cup Pure Pumpkin
1/4 cups Packed Light Brown Sugar
1-1/2 teaspoon Cinnamon
1 Egg
1 Tablespoon Water
Coarse Sugar For Topping (optional)

Preheat oven to 400ºF. Lightly grease a large baking pan with nonstick cooking spray or line with parchment paper. Set aside.Lightly flour a cutting board or other flat surface. Gently unfold both puff pastry sheets onto surface. Use a rolling pan to flatten a bit more, if needed. Using a round cookie cutter or biscuit cutter, cut 9 circles from each sheet. Place onto prepared pan. Lightly run a butter knife around the edges of each danish to score a circular border to hold filling.In a small bowl, add pumpkin, brown sugar, and cinnamon. Stir to combine. Spoon pumpkin mixture evenly onto the center of each danish.In a small bowl, add egg and water. Gently whisk to combine. Brush edges of danish with egg wash. Sprinkle coarse sugar on edges of danish, if desired.Bake for 15–18 minutes, or until danishes are golden brown. Remove from oven and allow to cool for 5 minutes.Serve immediately or store in an airtight container until ready to serve. Enjoy!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Cardamom-Honey Ice Cream
FOR THE ICE CREAM:
2 cups Heavy Cream
1 cup Whole Milk
1 Tablespoon Green Cardamom Pods, Cracked
1/2 cups Light To Medium Honey (I Used Orange Blossom)
1 dash Salt
6 whole Egg Yolks
1/4 cups Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
FOR THE GRANOLA:
3 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
2-1/2 Tablespoons Light Brown Sugar
2-1/2 Tablespoons Extra Virgin Olive Oil
1/2 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1/2 cups Old Fashioned Rolled Oats
1/3 cups Pistachios, Roughly Chopped
2 pinches Fleur De Sel
FOR THE PLUMS:
4 whole Ripe Plums (I Prefer Red), Halved And Pitted
1 Tablespoon Butter, Melted
1 Tablespoon Light Brown Sugar
1 pinch Kosher Salt

Combine cream, milk, cardamom, honey and salt in a medium saucepan. Warm over medium heat until mixture comes to simmer. Cover and remove from heat. Allow mixture to steep about 5–10 minutes or until the cardamom flavor is apparent, yet subtle. Remove cardamom using a spider or slotted spoon. If you allow the mixture to steep too long, it will become bitter.Place a sieve over a large bowl and set aside. Bring cream mixture back to a simmer over medium heat.Beat egg yolk and sugar until combined. Temper eggs by spooning about 2 to 3 ladlefuls of the cream mixture into the yolk mixture while constantly whisking. Reduce heat to medium-low and slowly pour egg mixture into cream mixture, whisking constantly. Continue to whisk for about 3–5 minutes or until custard is thick enough to coat the back of a spoon.Remove from heat. Pour ice cream base through the sieve into the bowl to remove any lumps. Stir in vanilla. Cool to room temperature. Chill in fridge at least 4 hours or up to 24 hours.Freeze using an ice cream machine according to manufacturer’s instructions. Let set completely in freezer. Enjoy.For the granola, preheat oven to 225°F and line a baking tray with a silpat or parchment.Combine syrup, sugar, oil and salt in a bowl. Microwave for about 30–60 seconds or until sugar is dissolved. Place oats and pistachios on tray and toss to coat in maple mixture.Bake for a total of 2–3 hours, stirring every 20 minutes, or until maple mixture has thickened to just coat the oats and nuts. Push granola into a tight bunch to encourage clusters to form. Lightly season with fleur de sel. Cool to room temperature. Store in the fridge.For the plums, preheat oven to 375°F. Line a baking tray with a silpat or parchment.Toss halved plums in butter, sugar and salt. Place on baking sheet, cut side down. Bake for approximately 10–15 minutes, or until softened and beginning to release juices. Peel and discard skin. Chop and combine with any juices from the baking tray.To serve, scoop ice cream into bowl and top with chopped plums and granola.

Butterscotch Banana Pudding Pie
1 whole 9 Inch Uncooked Pie Shell
3/4 cups Brown Sugar
1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 pinch Salt
3 cups Whole Milk
4 whole Egg Yolks, Whisked
2 Tablespoons Butter
2 teaspoons Vanilla
4 whole Medium Bananas, Sliced
2 cups Sweetened Whipped Cream
1-1/2 cup Toffee Walnuts

Preheat oven to 450ºF.Roll pie dough, and place into a 9-inch pie pan. Crimp edge, and use a fork to prick the bottom, and sides of the pie crust. Line with foil, pressing foil against the bottom, and sides of the crust, all the way to the crimp edge. Do not cover edge. Roll any excess foil inwards, to leave edge exposed.Bake for approximately 10 minutes, until crust is set and no longer doughy. Remove foil, and bake another 6–10 minutes, until crust is golden brown. Watch carefully. Allow to cool.In a medium-large sized saucepan, whisk brown sugar, flour, and pinch of salt. Slowly whisk in milk to prevent lumps. Bring to a simmer over medium heat, stirring constantly. Cook until thickened. Remove from heat.Whisk milk mixture into egg yolks 1/2 cup at a time, until 2 cups of milk mixture have been added. Whisk egg yolk mixture back into milk mixture. Return to a simmer, and cook stirring constantly until thickened, like pudding. Remove from heat. Whisk in butter and vanilla.Place a thin layer of butterscotch pudding on bottom of pie crust. Cover with a single layer of bananas, followed by another thin layer of pudding. Repeat until 3 layers of bananas have been added. Cover with remaining pudding.Cover and refrigerate for 6 hours or overnight.Slice pie. Serve with lightly sweetened whipped cream and toffee walnuts.

Animal Cookie Truffles
1 bag (12 Oz. Size) Frosted Animal Cookies (I Used Mother's)
5 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened
1 teaspoon Shortening
1 cup (heaping) White Candy Melts (I Used Wilton)
1 cup (heaping) Pink Candy Melts (I Used Wilton)
Colored Sprinkles

Break up the animal cookies a little bit by hand before adding to the bowl of a food processor. Process until they are coarse crumbs.Add cream cheese. Process 20 seconds, then stop and scrape the bowl. Process another 20 seconds, then stop and scrape. Process until well-combined ( the mixture will not be smooth). Scrape into a small bowl and refrigerate 15 minutes or until slightly firm.Line a baking sheet with waxed paper or parchment. Remove the cookie and cream cheese mixture from the refrigerator.Rub your hands with the shortening. Scoop up tablespoons of the mixture and roll into balls, placing them on the prepared baking sheet. You should have about 20 truffles. Freeze the truffles 15–20 minutes.Melt the candy melts according to the package directions.Remove truffles from freezer and, using a fork, dip a truffle in the candy melt, scraping the excess coating off on the side of the bowl. Place it back on the baking sheet and immediately top with some sprinkles. Repeat with remaining truffles.Let set up at room temperature about 20 minutes. You may use a pair of kitchen shears or a sharp knife to trim any excess coating from around the bottom of each truffle after they have set up.Store in a covered container in refrigerator up to a week.

Melon Ice Cream with Granita
FOR THE ICE CREAM:
2 cups Heavy Cream
2/3 cups Sugar
1 pinch Salt
1 dash Vanilla Extract
12 ounces, weight Cubed Melon, Honeydew And/or Cantaloupe
2 drops Green Or Orange Food Coloring (optional)
FOR THE GRANITA:
12 ounces, weight Cubed Melon, Honeydew And/or Cantaloupe
1/4 cups Water
1/4 cups Light Corn Syrup, Or To Taste
1 pinch Salt
1 teaspoon Lemon Juice (or To Taste)
2 drops Green Or Orange Food Coloring (optional)

For the ice cream, warm cream, sugar and salt in a sauce pot until sugar is dissolved. Stir in vanilla. Transfer to a bowl and cool to room temperature. Refrigerate.When ice cream base is chilled, puree the melon in a blender with about ½ cup of the cream mixture until smooth. Strain through a sieve and stir into the remaining ice cream base. Add a couple drops of food coloring, if desired. Freeze using an ice cream machine according to the manufacturer’s instructions.For the granita, combine melon, water, light corn syrup, and salt in a blender and process until smooth. If your melon is very sweet, consider starting with less corn syrup and adjusting as needed.Add lemon, to taste. Filter through a sieve. Add a couple drops of food coloring, if desired.Pour granita into a flat, shallow tray, such as an 8×8 glass baking dish. Freeze for 45 minutes. Remove from freezer and scrape with a fork to break up ice chunks. Repeat again every 30 minutes until the mixture resembles fluffy shaved ice, 2–4 hours total.For serving, scoop ice cream into serving bowls. Scrape granita and spoon over ice cream. You can serve honeydew ice cream and granita together or mix and match with the cantaloupe flavor. Enjoy.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Raw Vegan Lemon Raffaellos
1/2 whole Lemon, Zest And Juice
3 Tablespoons Nut Butter Of Your Choice (I Use A Mixture Of Cashew Butter And Tahini)
1 Tablespoon Coconut Oil
3 Tablespoons Maple Syrup (or Another Sweetener Of Your Choice)
2/3 cups Desiccated Coconut
For Rolling:
1/4 cups Desiccated Coconut

Mix lemon juice with nut butter, coconut oil and maple syrup. If desired, add lemon zest. Add desiccated coconut and mix until you have a dough-like mixture. Shape truffles.Roll the truffles in desiccated coconut and refrigerate for a few hours or overnight.

Autumn Apple Cheesecake
2 cups Peeled, Sliced Apples
10 Tablespoons Butter, Divided
11 Tablespoons Sugar, Divided
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
2 cups Graham Cracker Crumbs
1 bag (11 Oz. Size) Caramels, Unwrapped
1/3 cups Milk
2 packages (8 Oz. Size) Cream Cheese, Softened
2 Eggs, Room Temperature, Slightly Beaten
1 teaspoon Vanilla
Whipped Cream And Nuts, For Garnish (optional)

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Prepare a 9-inch springform pan by spraying it lightly with nonstick spray. Place a circle of parchment paper in the bottom of the pan and spray the parchment paper. Mold some aluminum foil around the outside of the pan so no butter drips out as the crust bakes. Set aside.Mix sliced apples, 2 tablespoons butter, 1 tablespoon sugar, and cinnamon in a medium skillet and cook over medium heat about 5 minutes, stirring frequently. Reduce heat and continue to cook and stir another 3 minutes or until apples can be pierced easily with a fork, but aren’t mushy. Set aside to cool on wire rack.Melt remaining 1/2 cup (8 tablespoons) butter in a medium bowl in the microwave. Add graham cracker crumbs and 2 tablespoons sugar and mix well. Pat mixture in the bottom and about 1 inch up the sides of the prepared springform pan. Bake 8 minutes, then set aside to cool.While crust bakes, make the caramel by placing the unwrapped caramels in a medium bowl and adding the milk. Microwave on high, stirring after 1 minute. Continue microwaving and stirring at 30-second intervals until caramels are completely melted and mixture is smooth. Pour into a glass 1-cup measuring cup and set in the refrigerator to cool.Put softened cream cheese and remaining 1/2 cup of sugar in a mixing bowl and beat on medium speed until smooth, 1–2 minutes. Add eggs, then vanilla, and beat just until combined.Spread the cooled apples in bottom of the crust in the springform pan. Pour1/2 cup slightly cooled caramel evenly over the apples. Top with cream cheese mixture.Bake 45–50 minutes. Center should not be jiggly. Cool 2 hours on wire rack, then run a thin knife around the edge of the cheesecake. Remove the sides of the pan and refrigerate the cheesecake, uncovered, at least 3 hours before cutting.Serve each slice with some of the remaining caramel sauce, and garnish with whipped cream and nuts, if desired. Store leftover cheesecake loosely covered in refrigerator.

No-Bake Apple Cinnamon Cheesecake
FOR THE CRUST:
1 cup Graham Cracker Crumbs
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
2 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, melted
FOR THE CHEESECAKE FILLING:
1 package (8 Oz. Size) Cream Cheese, Softened
1 cup Heavy Whipping Cream
4 Tablespoons White Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 teaspoon Apple Pie Spice
2 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
2 Apples, Peeled, Cored, And Diced
2-1/2 Tablespoons Light Brown Sugar
1 teaspoon Cinnamon

To prepare crust, in a small bowl, combine graham cracker crumbs, cinnamon, and melted butter. Stir until thoroughly combined. Set aside.To make the cheesecake batter, in a large bowl, combine cream cheese, heavy cream, white sugar, vanilla extract, and apple pie spice. Using an electric hand mixer or stand mixer with fitted paddle attached, beat mixture until smooth and creamy, about 3–4 minutes. Set aside.To make the apple topping, in a large skillet, melt butter over medium heat. Add diced apples, brown sugar, and cinnamon. Stir to combine and sauté apples until tender, about 5–7 minutes.To assemble cheesecake in mini Mason jars, spoon about 4 tablespoons of graham cracker crumbs onto the bottom of jars. Lightly press down with a spoon. Add about 1/4 cup of cheesecake batter on top of graham cracker crumbs, followed by roughly 3 tablespoons of sautéed apples. Repeat with another layer of cheesecake and apples, if desired. Refrigerate until firm, at least 30 minutes, or until ready to serve.To assemble cheesecake in pie form, spread graham cracker crumbs onto the bottom of a 9-inch springform pan and lightly press down. Add cheesecake filling and spread in an even layer, followed by sautéed apples. Refrigerate until firm, at least 30 minutes, or until ready to serve.Enjoy!

Baked Apple Cider Donuts
2 cups Gluten Free Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt
1-1/2 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Nutmeg
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
1 Large Egg
1/2 cups Sugar
1/2 cups Apple Cider
1/2 cups Unsweetened Applesauce
FOR THE COATING:
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/4 cups Sugar
1 Tablespoon Butter

Preheat oven to 375ºF. Spray a donut pan (or two), set aside (recipe will make about 10 donuts).In a large bowl, whisk dry ingredients to combine (flour, baking powder, baking soda, sea salt, cinnamon, nutmeg).In a second bowl, add melted butter, egg, sugar, apple cider and applesauce. Whisk until uniform. Pour dry ingredients into wet and fold gently to combine, without overdoing it.Pour batter into a large zip bag and make a small cut in one of the corners. When you are ready to pour batter into donut pan, twist bag, squeezing the batter out through the small corner cut and into the donut pan.Bake for 10 minutes. Insert toothpick to make sure it is cooked through. Remove from oven and allow it to cool off before removing from the pan.In a small plate (or shallow bowl), mix cinnamon and sugar for the coating.Melt butter in microwave. Brush on both sides of the donut and dip into the sugar plate, until fully coated with cinnamon sugar.

Apple Cake with Caramel Apple Butter
2 Eggs
1/2 cups Sugar
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Canola Oil
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Apple Butter Spread
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Salt
2 cups Apples
FOR THE SAUCE:
4 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
1 cup Dark Brown Sugar
1/4 cups Heavy Cream
1/4 cups Milk
1/3 cups Apple Butter Spread
1/4 teaspoons Salt

Preheat oven to 350°F.Add eggs, sugar, and brown sugar in a big bowl, and mix until well-incorporated. Add canola oil, vanilla extract, and apple butter, and mix well again.In a different bowl, mix flour, baking soda, cinnamon, and salt. Combine the dry mixture to the wet mixture in batches and mix well.Peel and dice apples and fold them into the batter. Pour batter into a greased bundt pan and bake at 350°F for 40–50 minutes, until an inserted toothpick comes out clean.While cake cools, prepare the sauce. Add butter, brown sugar, cream, milk, and salt to a sauce pan, and stir until butter is melted and incorporated. Once sauce boils, reduce heat and let it bubble for 5–7 minutes while stirring. Remove sauce from heat, add apple butter, and mix well.Once cake and sauce have had time to cool, pour sauce over the cake. Enjoy the cake warm, and refrigerate between servings.

Simple Almond Butter Cookies
3/4 cups Butter, Softened
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 Egg
1/2 teaspoons Almond Extract
2 cups All-purpose Flour

Preheat oven to 400ºF.In a large mixing bowl, cream butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Add salt, almond extract, and egg, beating until well incorporated. Gradually add the flour until well incorporated.Scoop the dough into the cookie press with your desired disk and press dough onto cookie sheet lined with parchment paper. Bake for 8 to 10 minutes or until slightly brown at the edges.Note: If you do not have a cookie press, you can roll the dough out on a lightly floured surface and use a cookie cutter. Then bake for the same amount of time.

Portuguese Custard Tarts
250 grams Sweet Puff Pastry
500 milliliters Whipping Cream (35% Fat)
200 grams Granulated Sugar
8 Egg Yolks
1 Lemon, Zest Only
Glass Sugar, For Sprinkling
Cinnamon, For Sprinkling

Preheat oven to 250ºF.Roll out the puff pastry and cut circles about 3 inches diameter. Place circles at the bottom of a nonstick cupcake pan. Refrigerate while you prepare the filling.Add whipping cream into a big pot and whisk until there are no lumps of cream. Add sugar, yolks and lime zest and mix until sugar is dissolved.Place pot on the stove over medium heat. Stir constantly until thick. Remove from heat and let custard cool.Fill puff pastry cups with custard. Bake 15 minutes, or until set.Chill tarts. Garnish with glass sugar and cinnamon.

Matcha Ice Cream
1 Tablespoon High Quality Matcha Green Tea Powder (or More To Taste)
2 cups Half-and-Half, Divided
1 cup Heavy Cream
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1 pinch Fine Salt
4 Large Egg Yolks
1/2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract

In a small bowl, combine the matcha powder with 1/2 cup of half-and-half until smooth and no lumps remain (add a spoonful of the sugar to help break up the clumps if necessary). In a medium mixing bowl, combine sugar, salt, and egg yolks; set aside.In a heavy-bottom saucepan over medium-high heat, combine matcha mixture, remaining half-and-half, and heavy cream; cook, stirring frequently, until the mixture is heated to the point where it begins to steam.Quickly whisk 1/2 cup of the hot ice cream base into the egg yolk mixture until completely combined; repeat with another 1/2 cup of the hot ice cream base. Pour the now warmed matcha mixture into the saucepan that contains the hot ice cream base. Resume cooking, stirring constantly, until mixture begins to boil. Remove from heat and stir in pure vanilla extract. Strain mixture through a sieve and chill thoroughly before churning.When mixture is completely chilled, churn in ice cream maker following manufacturer’s instructions. Transfer ice cream to an airtight container and store in freezer.Makes about 1 quart.

The Best Vegan Chocolate Chunk Cookies
2/3 cups Cup Earth Balance Vegan Butter Sticks, Softened (or Coconut Oil, Or Regular Butter If Not Vegan)
2/3 cups Brown Sugar
2/3 cups Sugar
1/2 cups Almond Milk
2 teaspoons Vanilla
3-1/4 cups Whole Wheat Pastry Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
10 ounces, weight Chopped Dark Chocolate (or Chocolate Chips)

Cream softened butter with sugars until light and fluffy. Mix in almond milk and vanilla.Add flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Mix until combined; dough will be soft. Fold in chopped chocolate. Refrigerate dough 20 minutes.Preheat oven to 350°F. Drop dough into rounded tablespoons on prepared cookie sheet. Bake 10–12 minutes. Remove from oven and cool 5 minutes on baking sheet before transferring to cooling rack.

Chocolate Almond Bark Thins
8 ounces, fluid Bittersweet Baking Chocolate, Coarsely Chopped
1/2 cups Almonds, Lightly Chopped
1 teaspoon Sea Salt (optional)

In a medium pot over medium high heat, add about 1 inch of water to boil. Place a bowl on top. Add coarsely chopped chocolate. Stir chocolate frequently to ensure all chocolate melts. Once all chocolate is melted, remove bowl from pot and set aside.Add chopped almonds and stir. Pour onto a 9×13 inch pan covered with parchment paper. Spread mixture thinly. Place in freezer for at least 30 minutes.Remove and cut into desired size pieces. Enjoy!

Galaxy Mirror Glaze Mousse Cakes
FOR THE FROZEN MOUSSE CAKES:
2-1/3 cups Heavy Cream, Divided
2 cups High Quality Chopped Chocolate (350g)
FOR THE GALAXY MIRROR GLAZE:
1 Tablespoon Unflavored Granulated Gelatin
1/2 cups Water, Divided
1/2 leaves Light Corn Syrup
10 Tablespoons Superfine Sugar
1/3 cups Sweetened, Condensed Milk
5-1/3 ounces, weight High Quality Chopped White Chocolate (about 1/2 Cup Plus 6 Tablespoons)
White Gel Food Coloring
Assorted Gel Food Colors
Edible Glitter

For the frozen mousse cakes: Place chocolate in a large mixing bowl. Heat 1 1/3 cups heavy cream in the microwave or on the stovetop until it starts to boil, then pour over chocolate and rest for 2 minutes. Gently whisk to combine fully and allow to cool completely.In a medium mixing bowl, beat remaining 1 cup heavy cream until soft peaks form. Fold into chocolate mixture until no streaks of cream remain. Pour into mold(s) and freeze for at least 4 hours of until frozen solid.For the galaxy mirror glaze: In a small bowl, use a fork to combine gelatin and 1/4 cup water (be sure no dry clumps remain); set aside for 10 minutes to allow the gelatin to bloom (hydrate).In a heavy-bottom saucepan over medium-high heat, combine corn syrup, sugar and remaining 1/4 cup water, stirring until sugar dissolves. Bring to 217ºF.Remove saucepan from heat and add bloomed gelatin. Stir until gelatin melts and no granules remain. Add sweetened condensed milk and stir to combine.Pour mixture over white chocolate and rest for several minutes. Gently whisk until all the white chocolate melts and mixture is fully incorporated, being careful to not incorporate air bubbles. Use a stick blender to blend for 1–2 minutes to make the mixture completely smooth.Add white gel coloring to make the mixture white instead of yellowish, then divide into individual containers and color with additional gel coloring as desired. Allow glaze to between 85 and 95ºF, then pour over unmolded frozen mousse cakes. Sprinkle with edible glitter and serve.Leftover glaze can be refrigerated for several days—just reheat gently in the microwave, using 10–15 second intervals, stirring each time, until temperature it reaches the proper pouring temperature.

Arnold Palmer Popsicles
1 cup Sugar
3 Large Lemons, Zest And Juice
2 cups Water
3 bags (individual-size) Black Tea

Pour sugar into a resealable container. Zest all lemons and place lemon zest in with the sugar. Mix until well-combined. Cover and set aside or at least 1 hour, stirring occasionally. This will give time to extract the oils from the lemon zest. Juice the lemons and set juice aside.When ready, heat the water on the stove top to a simmer. Add tea bags and cover, steep for 5 minutes. Remove bags then add lemon sugar and lemon juice to the hot tea. Stir until sugar as completely dissolved.Pour tea through a find mesh strainer into a pitcher. Pour tea into popsicle molds, leaving about 1/4 of inch space at the top for expansion. Depending on your popsicle mold, place cover on and sticks halfway into the popsicle. Place in the freezer for 4 hours or overnight. Check the popsicles after 1 hour to adjust sticks if needed.Gently remove frozen popsicles from mold by running mold under warm water and pulling the popsicles straight up. If they don’t budge right away, run some more warm water and try again.To store the popsicles, wrap them individually with a parchment paper and place in a resealable plastic bag.

S’mores Ice Cream Cake
48 ounces, weight Vanilla Ice Cream
4-1/2 ounces, weight Milk Chocolate
18 Honey Graham Crackers
4 Tablespoons Butter, Melted
3 cups Mini Marshmallows

Let ice cream soften while you prep everything else.Line a cake pan with foil, make sure it overhangs a bit so it will be easier to take out.Grate chocolate bar using a box grater. (Put the bar in the freezer for about 5 minutes prior to grating to cut down on the amount that melts to your fingers.) Put graham crackers in a food processor and pulse until finely ground. Divide ground graham crackers into 2 equal parts.Mix 1 part graham crackers with melted butter. Dump into lined cake pan and pat down so it holds together. Sprinkle about 1/2 cup of chocolate shavings, spreading evenly.Add ice cream (I used an ice cream scoop because it’s easier to make it even). Top ice cream with remaining ground graham crackers. Cover with plastic wrap and freeze until solid, about 3–4 hours.Once frozen, remove from freezer. Take off the plastic wrap and foil, and decorate with mini marshmallows and remaining chocolate shavings.Let the cake soften slightly before cutting. Enjoy!

The Ultimate Fudgy Paleo Brownies
1 cup Coconut Oil
1 cup Real Maple Syrup
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 Eggs
1/2 cups Tapioca Flour
1 cup Cocoa Powder
1/4 teaspoons Sea Salt
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 cups Dairy-free Or Dark Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350°F and grease a 7×11 baking dish with coconut oil.In a mixing bowl, beat coconut oil, maple syrup, vanilla, and eggs.In a separate bowl, combine tapioca, cocoa, salt, and baking powder. Add dry mixture to the wet slowly while beating.Melt the chocolate chips in the microwave or over a double boiler. Add this to the batter and stir. Pour into the baking dish and spread out evenly.Bake for 20 minutes.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Cream Puffs
FOR THE PASTRY CREAM:
3 cups Whole Milk, Divided
1/4 cups Cornstarch
1 Tablespoon Unbleached All-purpose Flour
4 Egg Yolks
3/4 cups Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Kosher Or Fine Sea Salt
1/2 Vanilla Bean
4 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature
FOR THE CREAM PUFF SHELLS (CHOUX PASTRY):
1 cup Water
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter
1/4 teaspoons Kosher Or Fine Sea Salt
1 cup Unbleached All-purpose Flour
4 Eggs, Or As Needed
FOR THE SWEETENED WHIPPED CREAM:
3/4 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
2 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar

For the pastry cream: In a large bowl, whisk 1/4 cup milk, cornstarch, flour, and egg yolks. Set aside.Combine remaining 2 3/4 cups milk, sugar, and salt in a medium saucepan. Split the vanilla bean and scrape out the seeds. Add seeds and vanilla pod to the pan. Heat over medium-high heat until boiling. Remove from heat.Gradually whisk about half of the hot milk mixture into the egg yolk mixture. Pour the egg mixture back into the pan. Heat on medium heat, constantly stirring, until the mixture comes to a boil. Boil for 30 seconds then remove from heat.Pour the mixture through a fine sieve placed over a bowl. Once the cream has gone through the sieve, stir in the butter until melted and combined.Press a piece of plastic wrap directly onto the surface of the cream and refrigerate until chilled, several hours. Whisk before using.For the cream puff shells (choux pastry): Preheat oven to 425ºF. Line cookie sheet with parchment paper.In a medium saucepan, heat water, butter, and salt until mixture comes to a rolling boil over medium-high heat. Remove pan from heat, add flour all at once, and stir vigorously with a wooden spoon. Once all of the flour is incorporated, place the pan back over medium-high heat. Stir continuously for 2–3 minutes until dough is smooth, shiny, and is pulling away from the edges of the pan.Place dough into a bowl of an electric mixer and let cool for 5 minutes. Beat in the eggs one at a time, scraping down the sides and bottom of the bowl each time. Beat until egg is fully incorporated. After the third egg, the mixture will start to look fluffy when beaten. Before adding the fourth egg, check the batter. Lift a silicone spatula with the batter over the bowl. If the batter hangs off the spatula in a V-shape, there’s no need to add the final egg. If not, add the egg and beat until fluffy.Transfer the batter to a pastry bag fitted with a 1/2-inch round tip. Pipe the batter into 12 rounds on the prepared cookie sheet. With a wet finger, tap down any peaks on top.Bake for 15 minutes, then lower the heat to 350ºF and bake for 15 minutes more. The batter should have risen and puffed. Turn off the oven, crack the door, and let the puffs rest in the oven for 20 minutes.Remove the puffs from the oven, gently lift off of the sheet, and place on a wire cooling rack. Pierce the side of each with a paring knife to allow steam to release. Let cool completely before filling.For the sweetened whipped cream: Whip the cream until soft peaks form. Add the sugar and continue whipping the cream until stiff peaks form.To assemble the cream puffs: Whisk the cooled pastry cream. Fold in the whipped cream until combined. Place cream in a piping bag fitted with a large star tip.Cut the cream puffs in half. Pipe the cream generously on the bottom half. Place the top half on the cream. Dust with powdered sugar. (Alternately, spoon the cream into the cut shell.)Best served soon after filling, cream puffs may be stored in the refrigerator. Dust with powdered sugar just before serving.

Best S’more Truffles
1/2 cups Butter, Softened
1/4 cups Brown Sugar, Packed
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 cup All-purpose Flour
3 Tablespoons Milk
1/3 cups Marshmallow Cream
2 cups Chocolate Chips, Melted
4 Graham Cracker Rectangles, Crushed, Plus More For Sprinkling If Desired

In the bowl of a stand mixer, cream together butter and sugars. Add vanilla, mix until combined. Slowly add flour, mix until combined. Add milk, mix until combined. Add graham crackers and marshmallow cream, mix until just combined.Roll dough into small balls (about 2 teaspoonfuls) and place on baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Place in the freezer for 30 minutes.Melt chocolate over a double boiler, or slowly in microwave. Dip frozen dough into chocolate until fully coated and place back on lined baking sheet. Sprinkle with crushed graham crackers if desired.Place in fridge for 15 minutes to set.Note: I used a very small cookie scoop for my dough, but if you don’t have one, you can use your hands to roll into balls. If the dough is too soft or sticky, let it chill in the fridge for 15 minutes before you roll it into balls.

Almond Cake with Basil Infused Whipped Cream
FOR THE ALMOND CAKE:
1 cup Plus 2 Tablespoons, All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1 whole Egg
1/2 teaspoons Almond Extract
6 Tablespoons Milk
3 Tablespoons Almond Meal
1 cup Fresh Berries And Peaches
FOR THE BASIL INFUSED WHIPPED CREAM TOPPING:
1 cup Whipping Cream
1/4 cups Fresh Basil Leaves
1 Tablespoon Powdered Sugar

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease an 8-inch round cake pan.Whisk together flour and baking powder. Set aside.In a bowl of a stand mixer, cream butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Add egg and almond extract, mix until incorporated.With the mixer on low, add half of the flour mixture, then milk, then the remaining flour mixture. Mix until combined. Fold in the almond meal.Pour the cake batter into the prepared cake pan. Bake 20 to 25 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the cake centre comes out clean. Let cool.To prepare the whipped cream, heat cream over medium heat in a small saucepan, until it just starts to simmer. Remove from heat and toss in the basil leaves. Let sit at room temperature for 30 minutes.Pour the cream through a strainer into a small bowl to remove the basil. Cover and refrigerate at least 4 hours until chilled.Whisk the whipping cream and powdered sugar until it holds firm peaks. Gently spread a thick layer of whipped cream on top of the cake. Garnish with fresh fruits and basil leaves.

One-Bowl Pistachio Ginger Snaps
1 cup Almond Flour
1 cup Coconut Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/4 cups Finely Chopped Pistachio Nuts, Divided
1 teaspoon Vanilla Essence
3 Tablespoons Honey
1/3 cups Plus 1 Tablespoon Coconut Oil, Melted

Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F). Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.In a large bowl, stir almond flour, coconut flour, baking soda, ginger, cinnamon and half of the pistachio nuts.Make a well in the centre of the dry ingredients and pour in vanilla essence, honey and coconut oil, stirring from the middle outwards to incorporate the dry ingredients slowly.Once combined, roll the mixture into tight balls. Place on the baking sheet and press down flat with your fingers. They should be about 5mm thick. Sprinkle the remaining chopped pistachio nuts on top and press them down into the cookies.Bake for 5 minutes until golden brown. You may need to do two batches. Allow to cool completely on the baking tray before serving. They will crisp up as they cool. Enjoy!Notes: When pressing the cookies down onto the baking sheet, they may break apart at the edges, but I just pushed the edges back in with my fingers to make them smooth again, and pressed the cookie down flatter, until I had about a 5mm thick cookie in a somewhat even round shape.

Crispy Vegan Coconut Cookies
1/4 cups Coconut Oil
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
4 Tablespoons Coconut Sugar
1/2 cups Rice Flour
1/4 cups Oat Flour
1/4 cups Desiccated Coconut, Plus 3 Tablespoons For Sprinkling
1/4 cups Coconut Milk

Preheat oven to 170°C (325°F).Mix coconut oil with maple syrup and sugar. Add rice flour, oat flour and 1/4 cup desiccated coconut, and mix again. The mixture will be crumbly and dry.Start adding milk little by little and keep mixing until you have a dough that stays together when you press it.Roll dough. Sprinkle with remaining 3 tablespoons desiccated coconut and slightly press the coconut down. Cut dough into even rectangles or squares.Transfer cookies onto a baking tray covered with baking paper and bake for 15–18 minutes or until golden. Keep an eye on them because they can burn easily. They could be soft when you take them out of the oven, but once they cool down, they are crispy and delicious.

Fresh Peach Cobbler
FOR THE PEACH FILLING:
7 cups Sliced Peaches, About 1/4 Inch Thick
1-1/2 Tablespoon Arrowroot Starch
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
2 Tablespoons Coconut Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Lemon Zest
1 Tablespoon Freshly Squeezed Lemon Juice
1/8 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
FOR THE COBBLER TOPPING:
2/3 cups Whole Wheat Pastry Flour
1/4 cups Almond Meal
1/4 cups Coconut Sugar
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Sea Salt
1/4 cups Coconut Oil, Hardened
1/2 cups Unsweetened Almond Milk

Preheat oven to 400ºF.Slice peaches into about 1/4-inch thick slices. We want them to be relatively thick so they hold up when baked. No need to remove the skin.In a large mixing bowl, add sliced peaches, arrowroot starch, cinnamon, coconut sugar, lemon zest, lemon juice, nutmeg, and vanilla extract and toss until completely combined and arrowroot is dissolved. Pour filling into a cast iron skillet or a greased baking dish, and set aside.To prepare the biscuit cobbler topping, in a large bowl, add whole wheat pastry flour, almond meal, coconut sugar, baking powder, and sea salt. Stir to combine.Add hardened coconut oil to the bowl and, using your fingers or a pastry cutter, break the pieces down until they are about the size of peas. (To get the coconut hardened, you can place it in the refrigerator or freezer for about 10 minutes.)Add unsweetened almond milk and stir until just combined. It’s okay that the batter is slightly lumpy.In heaping tablespoons, drop the batter over the sliced peach mixture in the cast iron skillet. Place into the oven and bake until the cobbler topping is golden brown, about 20–25 minutes.Note: If you don’t have access to whole wheat pastry flour, you can also use whole wheat flour, buckwheat flour, oat flour, or spelt flour.

Fredericksburg Peach Cobbler
3 cups Sliced Fresh Peaches (about 4 Peaches)
6 Tablespoons Butter, Melted
3/4 cups Flour
1-1/2 cup Sugar, Divided
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Milk

Preheat oven to 350ºF.First peel your peaches. If your peaches are ripe, it is easier. I used a vegetable peeler to pull up a piece of skin and then I pulled the skin off in long strips. If your peaches are a bit firmer, you might need to use some boiling water to help you. Bring a saucepan filled halfway with water to a boil then, with a small knife, cut an X through the skin on the bottom of your peach. Then when the water is boiling, add the peach and boil it for 30 to 45 seconds. Remove peach from the water with a slotted spoon. The boiling water will help loosen the skin. You can begin to pull the skin off from the cuts you made on the bottom of the peach.Once peaches are peeled, slice them off the pit into even slices.Pour melted butter in the bottom of an 8×8 square baking pan.In a medium-sized bowl, whisk flour, 1 cup sugar, baking powder, salt and milk. When the batter is well-mixed, pour it on top of the melted butter. You can spread out the batter a bit by using a rubber spatula, but do not stir. You are going to layer the ingredients on top of each other.Arrange or place peaches evenly on top of the batter. Some of the peaches may overlap a bit to make a double layer. Don’t worry about exact placement because the batter will rise and cover the peaches as it bakes. Before you put it in the oven, evenly sprinkle the top with remaining 1/2 cup sugar.Bake 40 to 45 minutes or until you see the top turn a golden brown. I like to serve mine warm with a scoop of vanilla ice cream.

Creamy Peach Popsicles
4 whole Peaches, Pitted And Thinly Sliced
1/4 cups Dark Brown Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 cup Plain Greek Yogurt

First, bake the peaches. Preheat oven to 400ºF and get out an 8 x 8 baking dish. Combine peach slices, brown sugar and cinnamon in it and stir them all together well to coat the peaches. Bake for 10–12 minutes to make them tender and juicy. Take them out and let them cool for a couple of minutes while you set up a food processor.Pour peaches into the food processor bowl with yogurt and puree completely until it is a smooth, uniform liquid. Fill popsicle molds to the brim with the liquid and freeze for at least 4 hours, or up to overnight.Serve when they are frozen for a refreshing treat!

Stone Fruit Apple Date Brunch Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
3 Apples, Peeled And Chopped Small
1 cup Dates, Chopped Small
1 teaspoon Bicarb Of Soda
1-1/4 cup Boiling Water
1/2 cups Coconut Oil
1 teaspoon Vanilla Essence
1 Egg, Lightly Beaten
1 cup Almond Flour
1/2 cups Coconut Flour
1/2 teaspoons Nutmeg
Pinch Of Salt
FOR THE TOPPING:
1 Nectarine, Sliced
1 Plum, Sliced
1 Tablespoon Honey
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon

Preheat oven to 175°C (350°F). Generously grease a round 20cm (8-inch) cake tin with coconut oil.In a large bowl, mix apples, dates, bicarb of soda and boiling water. Set aside to cool.In a small bowl, stir coconut oil and vanilla essence into the beaten egg.In another large bowl, stir almond flour, coconut flour, nutmeg and salt. Add the apple mixture and the oil and egg mixture alternately to the flour mixture, until combined.Place the slices of nectarine and plum in a circular design on the base of the cake tin. Drizzle honey evenly over the fruit, then sprinkle on ground cinnamon.Gently spoon the cake mixture onto the fruit, and smooth out carefully until level. Bake for 60 minutes or until a tester comes out clean. After 15 minutes of baking, gently rest a piece of silver foil over the cake for the rest of the cooking time to stop it from browning too much.Allow the cake to cool completely before turning it out onto a serving plate. Slice with a sharp knife and enjoy.Note: It is very important that you allow the cake to cool completely before turning it out, or the cake will break apart and the topping will be left in the cake tin.

Colossal Chocolate Brownie Ice Cream
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
1/2 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
2 cups Brownie Chunks
3/4 cups Mini Chocolate Chips
3 Tablespoons Room Temperature Hot Fudge Sauce (See Note In Blog Post)

In a large bowl, stir sweetened condensed milk, cocoa powder, and vanilla extract. Set aside.In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, whisk heavy cream until stiff peaks form. Using a rubber spatula, fold whipped cream into chocolate mixture until thoroughly combined. Gently fold in brownie chunks and mini chocolate chips.Pour into a freezer-safe container (I always use a loaf pan). Pour fudge sauce on top of ice cream and briefly swirl with a knife to incorporate. Cover and chill for 4–8 hours, or until firm.Top with hot fudge sauce, extra chocolate chips, or whatever your heart desires!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Zucchini Almond Cake
2 cups Gluten-free All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Sea Salt
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
Pinch Nutmeg
1/2 cups Roasted Unsalted Almonds, Chopped
2 cups Grated Zucchini
3 Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 teaspoon Orange Zest
1/2 cups Honey
1 Orange, Juiced

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Place parchment paper on a 9×9 baking sheet, leaving sides hanging for easy pulling. Spray pan and parchment paper. Set aside.In a large bowl, mix dry ingredients to combine. In a small bowl, whisk remaining ingredients (wet ingredients) to combine.Pour the wet ingredients into the large flour bowl and fold to combine. Gently fold until batter is uniform.Pour into the prepared 9×9 baking sheet and bake for 20–22 minutes. Insert toothpick; if it’s clean, remove from oven and let it cool completely before cutting into squares.If desired, sprinkle with confectioners sugar or cover with a thin layer of frosting!

Sweet and Creamy Mango Chili Paletas
4 cups Sliced Ripe Mango
6-1/2 Tablespoons Sweetened, Condensed Milk
3-1/2 Tablespoons Sugar
4 teaspoons Chili Powder Or Tajin
1 teaspoon Salt (Omit If Using Tajin)
1 Lime, Juiced

Combine all ingredients in a blender or food processor and blend until smooth. Spoon mixture into popsicle molds, leaving about 1/4 inch space at the top for expansion. Depending on your popsicle mold (instructions for your model may vary), place cover on and sticks halfway into the popsicle. Place in the freezer for 4 hours or overnight.Gently remove frozen popsicles from mold by running mold under warm water and pulling the popsicles straight up. If they don’t budge right away, run some more warm water and try again.To store the popsicles wrap them individually with a parchment paper and place in a resealable plastic bag.

Ice Cream Cake Sandwiches
15-1/4 ounces, weight Funfetti Cake Mix
1/2 cups M&Ms (optional)
1/3 cups Canola Oil
5 Generous Scoops Vanilla Ice Cream, Or Your Favorite

Combine cake mix with M&Ms and oil, making it into a nice batter.Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and preheat oven to 350ºF.Take ice-cream-scoop-sized portions of the batter and lay onto the cookie sheet, leaving a couple of inches in between each scoop. Place into the preheated oven and bake for about 12 minutes or until they are evenly cooked.Once cookies are evenly cooked, remove from the oven and let cool on the parchment paper. Once cooled, place into the refrigerator for about 30 minutes or so until they firm up.Once firmed, remove from the refrigerator and get out the ice cream. Take one of the cake cookies and add a scoop or two of ice cream, then top with the other cake cookie. Repeat with remaining ice cream and cookies. I like to wrap mine with a bit of parchment for future use, but trust me these will not last long.Unwrap and dig in. Cool, refreshing, and fun(fetti) all around.

Mint Chocolate Chip Nice Cream
4 whole Frozen Bananas
1/4 cups Coconut Milk
1/8 teaspoons Pure Peppermint Extract
2 drops Liquid Chlorophyll, For Green Color (optional)
Dark Chocolate Chips, To Taste

Place frozen bananas, coconut milk and peppermint extract in food processor. Add liquid chlorophyll if using. Process until smooth. Taste and adjust for sweetness and mintiness.Add chocolate chips and process until combined.

Lemon Eclairs
FOR THE CHOUX PASTRY:
10 Tablespoons Water
50 grams Butter, Cubed
65 grams All-purpose Flour
2 whole Eggs, Beaten
FOR THE FILLING:
300 milliliters Heavy Cream
6 Tablespoons Lemon Curd (Store-bought Or See My TK Recipe Box)
FOR THE ICING:
200 grams Powdered Sugar
1 whole Lemon, Juiced
3 drops Yellow Food Coloring

Preheat oven to 400ºF and line two sheet trays with silicone mats.For the choux pastry: Combine water and cubed butter in a sauce pan and heat it over medium low heat on the stove. When it starts to boil, add flour and take it off heat while you stir really well. When it becomes a paste, put it back over heat and keep stirring for another couple of minutes. It will dry out a little more, cook off the flour and naturally become a ball of dough.Let it cool for a few minutes, then whisk in eggs really well until dough is smooth and glossy. Sprinkle a little water on the trays to help steam the dough. Transfer the dough into a piping bag with a plain, 1/2 inch opening and pipe out 3-inch eclairs onto the trays, with 6 on each to give them lots of room to expand.Bake the eclairs for 10 minutes, then reduce oven heat to 375ºF and bake for another 20 minutes. While they bake, make the filling and the icing.For the filling, whip heavy cream with an electric hand mixer until stiff. Stir in lemon curd until it is smooth and set aside.For the icing, combine powdered sugar and lemon juice in a bowl and stir together. Add food coloring and keep stirring until you have a really stiff icing. Set aside.The eclairs should be done by this point. Let them cool enough to handle, then cut them in half lengthwise and transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.Now it’s time for assembly! Scoop filling into a piping bag with a plain 1/2-inch opening and pipe a generous amount on each of the bottom halves of the eclairs. Close them with the top halves. Then scoop the icing into a disposable piping bag and snip the tip. Pipe a thick, generous line down the length of each eclair. Run a butter knife under very hot water and use it to evenly and gently spread the icing and make it shine. You make have to run it under the water after each eclair for it to work best. Then they’re done! Serve immediately or refrigerate in a sealed container until you are ready to serve.

Mango Coconut Pudding (Manjar de Manga)
5 cups Cubed Fresh, Ripe (But Not Mushy) Mangoes
1-1/2 cup Sugar, Plus More For Coating The Pan
1-1/2 cup Milk
1-1/2 cup Coconut Milk
8 Tablespoons (rounded) Constarch
Butter, For Coating The Pan

In a large blender, blend all the ingredients until mixture is completely combined and has the consistency of a fruit smoothie. If your blender is not large enough, split ingredients into equal parts and process in two batches.Coat a cake mold with a light coat of butter and then sugar. Set aside.Transfer mixture from the blender to a large sauce pan and cook over medium heat until it starts to bubble, stirring frequently. Then stir constantly until mixture thickens to the consistency of a porridge.Pour cooked pudding into the prepared cake mold. Allow to cool to room temperature. Refrigerate at least 2 hours.To serve, place a servicing platter over the top of the cake mold and flip the two so that the pudding ring is centered on the serving platter. Cover with mango syrup with fruit (recipe below), and serve.

S’mores Angel Food Cake
FOR THE ANGEL FOOD CAKE:
1-3/4 cup Sugar
1 cup Cake Flour
1/4 teaspoons Salt
12 Egg Whites, Room Temperature
1/3 cups Warm Water
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1-1/2 teaspoon Cream Of Tartar
FOR THE TOPPING:
12 ounces, fluid Milk Chocolate, Finely Chopped
6 ounces, fluid Heavy Whipping Cream
1/2 cups Graham Cracker Crumbs
1 cup Marshmallow Fluff, Store Bought Or Homemade

Place sugar in a food processor and blend for 2 minutes, until sugar becomes very fine.In a medium bowl, combine cake flour, salt, and half of the fine sugar. Sift together and set aside.Preheat oven to 350ºF.Combine egg whites, water, vanilla and cream of tartar in the bowl of your stand mixer. Whisk ingredients together for 2 minutes until well combined. Gradually add remaining half of sugar and Beat egg white mixture until medium peaks are formed.Sprinkle some of the flour mixture over the top of egg white mixture. Gently fold in. Repeat until all of the flour mixture has been folded in evenly.Spoon mixture into an ungreased tube pan and bake for 35–40 minutes, until golden brown in color and cake is cooked through. Invert cake pan and cool upside down (cake remaining in the pan) until completely cooled.Once cooled, run a knife along the inside tube and the outside to loosen the cake. Lift the tube from the rest of the pan and invert the cake onto a cooling rack, using the knife to loosen it from the bottom, if necessary.For the ganache: Finely chop chocolate and place in a bowl. Bring cream just barely to a simmer and pour over chopped chocolate. Cover with plastic wrap and let stand 2 minutes. Stir with a spatula until combined and smooth. Allow ganache to cool a bit before using.Place cooling rack with cake on top over the top of your sink. Pour the ganache over the cake, spreading evenly over the sides, top, and inside.Take the graham cracker crumbs and throw them along the bottom half of the cake. Spread or pipe marshmallow creme over the top of the cake. Carefully toast the top with a culinary torch.

Chocolate Brownies in 30 Minutes
200 grams Dark Chocolate
125 grams Butter
1/2 cups Cream
1 cup Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
3 Eggs
1 cup Flour

Preheat oven to 390ºF.In a pot, melt chocolate with butter, cream, powdered sugar and vanilla extract. Stir until smooth and well combined.Add eggs and stir well. Add flour and stir again until combined.Pour mixture into 9×13 baking pan lined with parchment paper. Bake for 20–25 minutes

Chocolate Pralines
300 grams Fine Dark Chocolate, Divided
2 teaspoons Instant Coffee
30 milliliters Rum
200 milliliters Heavy Cream
50 grams Butter

First make the truffle filling, because it needs to cool before using it. In a bowl, place 100 grams chocolate, coffee, and rum. In a small saucepan, add heavy cream and butter and bring to a boil, then pour it over the chocolate. After 1 minute, start stirring until very smooth and shiny. Refrigerate until needed.Melt remaining chocolate and pour it into the silicone pralines molds. Spread it evenly on the walls. Refrigerate the molds for a few minutes.Add the filling and then freeze the pralines for 10 minutes. Take them out of the mold and taste the pleasure. Store them in the fridge.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Raw Vegan 3-Layer Bars
3 Tablespoons Coconut Oil, Divided
4 Tablespoons Maple Syrup, Divided
2 Tablespoons Cocoa Powder
1 cup Desiccated Coconut, Divided
1/4 cups Crushed Nuts
2 Tablespoons Coconut Cream
1/3 cups Dark Chocolate
1 Tablespoon Nut Butter
Chopped Nuts, For Topping

For the dark layer: Melt 2 tablespoons coconut oil, if you need to, and mix with 2 tablespoons maple syrup and the cocoa powder. Add 1/2 cup desiccated coconut and/or some ground nuts and seeds. Mix everything well and transfer the mixture into a small tray or container, and press it down. I decided to use an ice cube mold because it’s easier to shape the bars.Put it in the freezer until you make the next layer.For the white layer: Mix 1 tablespoon coconut oil with coconut cream and remaining 2 tablespoons maple syrup. Then add remaining 1/2 cup desiccated coconut and mix everything together. Press down this mixture over the dark layer and put the mold back in the freezer.For the chocolate layer: Melt dark chocolate and mix with nut butter. Pour it over the white layer. Decorate with chopped nuts and keep the bars in the fridge until everything is set.

Peach Puff Pastry Tarts
FOR PASTRY:
1 Sheet Of Puff Pastry From A 17.3 Oz. Package
2 Tablespoons Sugar, Plus More For Sprinkling On Edge Of Pastry
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 dash Nutmeg
1 cup Peeled, Thinly Sliced Or Chopped Fresh, Ripe Peaches
1 teaspoon Lemon Juice
3 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Slightly Softened
1 Egg Beaten With 1 Tablespoon Water (for Egg Wash)
FOR THE ICING:
1/4 cups Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Milk, Or More As Needed
1/4 teaspoons Almond Extract
1 Tablespoon Sliced Almonds

Preheat oven to 400ºF. Have a large, rimmed baking sheet ready.Remove puff pastry sheet from box and let sit at room temperature to thaw, about 25–30 minutes.While pastry is thawing, combine sugar, cinnamon, and nutmeg in a small bowl. Set aside.Slice peaches. If they are extremely juicy, put them on several paper towels to blot some of the juice. Return to the measuring cup and squeeze a little lemon juice on them.On a large cutting board or your countertop, lay out some parchment paper or a silicone baking mat. Place thawed puff pastry on the parchment and unfold it. With a sharp knife, cut the puff pastry at each fold so you have 3 long pieces.With a floured rolling pin, roll each piece so the short side is about 1 inch longer. (It was about 3 inches long, now it will be about 4 inches long.) With a sharp knife, score (do not cut entirely through the pastry) a line all the way around each pastry, about 1 inch in from the edge. Use a fork to lightly prick (don’t poke deep holes) inside the score lines. Transfer the pastries on the parchment or silicone mat to the baking sheet.Spread 1 ounce of cream cheese inside the score lines of each pastry. It doesn’t have to be exact, just try to get most of the inside of the scored area covered. Sprinkle the sugar mixture over the cream cheese on each pastry, a little over 2 teaspoons per pastry. Spread the peaches over the sugar and cream cheese (inside the scored area) on each pastry. Just eyeball it—I didn’t measure out the peaches exactly.Use a pastry brush to paint egg wash around the edges of each pastry, outside the score lines. Sprinkle some sugar over the edges.Bake for 15–18 minutes. Edges should puff up and pastry will be golden brown. Resist the urge to open the oven during baking if you want your pastry to puff as much as possible. Cool on a wire rack 20–25 minutes.Make the icing by whisking the powdered sugar, milk, and almond extract in a small bowl. Drizzle a small amount over each tart and sprinkle with a few sliced almonds.Cut and serve warm or at room temperature. Tarts taste best the day they are made, but may be refrigerated for the next day. Gently reheat in microwave (they won’t be crisp) or a toaster oven.

Butter Sponge Cake
107 grams Butter
8 Eggs, Separated
260 grams Sugar
170 grams Cake Flour
12 grams Baking Powder

Preheat oven to 180ºC or 350ºF. Grease and line a 30 X 20 cm or 12 x 8-inch cake pan.Melt butter on low heat and let cool.Beat egg whites until soft peaks, with a pinch of salt (optional).In another bowl, beat or whisk yolks and sugar for about 5 minutes or until almost white and light. Slowly add butter to yolks, beating on low.Add some of the egg whites and mix. Sift a bit of flour with the baking powder and mix. Alternate sifting flour and baking powder with remaining egg whites, and fold very gently in between so that you don’t lose all the air from the egg whites. Carefully, pour into prepared pan, smooth and level the top.Bake 25 minutes or until golden brown and a knife inserted into the cake comes out clean. Pay attention so it doesn’t dry.After taking it out of the oven, let sit for 5 minutes and unmold. If needed, release it from the pan with help of a knife or offset spatula. Let cool on a rack.

Blueberry Muffins
300 grams Blueberries
100 milliliters Water
200 grams White Sugar, Divided
50 milliliters Orange Juice, Freshly Squeezed
2 teaspoons Orange Zest
3 Eggs, Whole
100 milliliters Buttermilk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
350 grams Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder

Prepare a small saucepan. Add blueberries, water and 50 grams of sugar. Cook over low heat for 8–9 minutes, stirring and crushing the blueberries. Add orange juice and zest, and let it cook for another 2 minutes. Strain and set aside.Separately, mix eggs with the rest of the sugar, for about 7–8 minutes. Add buttermilk, vanilla and then the blueberries.In a bowl, combine flour and the baking powder, and then gradually add it to the blueberries mixture. Pour the creamy dough into the muffin molds, filling just 2/3 of the cup. Add some raw blueberries and bake at 170ºC for about 20 minutes.

Classic Peach Cobbler
FOR THE FILLING:
5 whole Peaches, Pitted And Thinly Sliced
1/3 cups Dark Brown Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Bourbon
1-1/4 teaspoon Cornstarch
FOR THE TOPPING:
2/3 cups All-purpose Flour
1/3 cups Dark Brown Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
4 Tablespoons Butter, Cubed
2-1/2 Tablespoons Water
2 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
Ice Cream, For Topping

First, prepare the peaches. Preheat oven to 425ºF. Combine sliced peaches, sugar, cinnamon, bourbon, and corn starch in a large bowl and stir it all together well to make sure the peaches are coated completely. Transfer the mixture to an 8 x 8 baking dish and bake the peaches for 10 minutes. Meanwhile, work on the topping. Combine the flour, brown sugar, baking powder and butter in a bowl. Use a pastry blender to cut the butter into the rest of the mixture until it is moist and crumbly.Heat the water in a small sauce pan and let it come to a gentle boil over medium heat. Stir in the rest of the topping mixture until it makes a pasty dough and take it off of the heat. Evenly crumble the topping over the peaches. Then stir the sugar and cinnamon together in a small bowl and sprinkle that evenly on the very top. Bake the cobbler for about 30 minutes, until the top is crispy. Let it cool and set for a couple of minutes, then serve warm with ice cream!

Grilled Peaches
2 Peaches
1 teaspoon Canola Oil
1 teaspoon Brown Sugar
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 cups Frozen Yogurt

Cut peaches in half and remove the pit. Brush the flesh side with canola oil. Grill on high for 7–10 minutes, turning them 90 degrees halfway through.Once they are soft throughout, remove and sprinkle brown sugar and cinnamon on top of the peach halves. Serve with frozen yogurt.

Coconut Lime Meringue Pie
FOR THE CRUST:
100 grams Unsalted Butter, Softened
1 whole Egg Yolk, Reserve The White
50 grams Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Coconut Extract
165 grams All Purpose
Cooking Spray, For Greasing
1 whole Egg, Beaten For An Egg Wash
FOR THE FILLING:
5 whole Eggs
2 whole Egg Yolks (reserve The Whites)
150 grams Granulated Sugar
5 whole Limes, Zest And Juice
1 whole Lemon, Zest And Juice
10 Tablespoons Heavy Cream
2 drops Green Food Coloring (optional)
FOR THE MERINGUE:
5 whole Egg White, Including The Three You Reserved
250 grams Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Coconut Extract
Shredded Coconut, For Sprinkling On Top

First, make the dough for the crust. Combine the softened butter, egg yolk, powdered sugar and coconut extract in a bowl and stir them together well. Then stir in the flour until you get a dough forming. Gently bring it together into a firm ball with clean hands in the bowl and set it in the refrigerator to chill for 30 minutes. When time is up, turn the dough out onto a well floured, clean surface and roll it out into a large, really thin disc. Get out an 8 inch springform pan and spray it really well with cooking spray. Press the disc into the pan. Don’t worry if it falls apart, just patch it up. Let the dough chill again for another 30 minutes in the pan.Preheat oven to 350ºF. Take out the crust and line it with aluminum foil. Fill the foil with either dry beans or pie weights to keep the crust from puffing while blind baking it. Bake it for 15 minutes. Then take it out and remove the foil and beans. Bake it for another 5 minutes to cook the bottom. Take it out again and brush it all over with the beaten egg. Bake it for 5 more minutes until it is golden. Take it out and let it cool completely. At this point, trim the top to take care of any scraggly edges and cracks on top. Reduce the oven heat to 285ºF and start on the filling.For the filling, combine the eggs, egg yolks, sugar, and the lime and lemon zest and juice. Use an electric hand mixer to blend them all together well. Then add the heavy cream and green food coloring if desired. Keep mixing it for another minute or so to make sure it is completely smooth and well blended. Then pour the mixture into a sauce pan and gently heat it up over medium low heat on the stove. It was about 4 on my gas stove. Stir it continuously for about 10–15 minutes until it becomes thick and the texture of pudding. Keep an eye on the temperature, do not let it boil or else the eggs will scramble.Pour the mixture into the cooled crust and bake the pie for about 10 minutes. It should be set but wobble just slightly. Set it aside to cool while you make the meringue topping. Put a small pot filled halfway with water on the stove and bring it to a gentle simmer. Combine the egg whites, sugar and coconut extract in a heat proof bowl and set it over the simmering water. Whisk it together while it gently heats up to dissolve the sugar and cook the eggs. The eggs will almost be opaque when they are perfect. Then take the bowl off of the heat and use a hand mixer to whip it up into a stiff, shiny meringue.Spread the meringue in a thick layer on top of the custard filling, making little swirls in it. Bring the oven heat back up to 350ºF and put the pie in to crisp up the meringue for 10–15 minutes. It should start to brown. Take it out and sprinkle lots of shredded coconut on top, then put it back in for about 5–10 more minutes to toast the coconut and brown the meringue more. Let the pie cool when it is done for 15 minutes, then release it from the pan. Chill it for at least 3 hours, then serve!

Sweet Potato Chocolate Cake Fudge Bites with Pecans
2 Medium Sweet Potatoes
7 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate (the Better The Quality, The Better The Cake)
1 Medium Banana
1/2 cups Raw Sugar Or Coconut Sugar
2 Tablespoons Almond Butter
2 Tablespoons Very Strongly Brewed Espresso
1 cup Buckwheat Flour
1/4 cups Raw Cacao
1 Tablespoon Chia Seeds
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 cups Pecans, Chopped

Peel sweet potatoes and cut into chunks. Cook in boiling water for 10 minutes or until soft. Drain, then place chunks back into the pot on the hot (but switched off) stove for 30 seconds to evaporate excess moisture.Heat oven to 160°F. Prepare an 8×8 inch (20x20cm) baking dish by greasing with coconut oil or lining with parchment paper. Mine was nonstick, so I just greased it.Place sweet potatoes and dark chocolate in a food processor and process until smooth and the chocolate has melted. Add banana, sugar, almond butter and espresso and pulse until smooth.Add buckwheat flour, cacao, chia and baking powder and pulse until combined. Fold in the pecans.Spread batter in the prepared tin and bake for 30–35 minutes. You can adjust the baking time to your liking—a little less will give you more fudgy brownie-like consistency, the longer you bake, the more cake-like they will become.Cool in the tin on a rack, then cut into squares.

Blackberry Watermelon Popsicles
1 pound Watermelon, Cubed (about 3 Cups)
6 ounces, weight Blackberries, Divided
2 Tablespoons Light Agave Nectar, Honey Or Light Corn Syrup, Or More To Taste
1 pinch Salt
2 Tablespoons Water Or As Needed
1 teaspoon Lemon Juice (or To Taste)

Add watermelon, 4 ounces of blackberries, sweetener and salt to a blender. Add water, as needed, to facilitate blending. Mix until thoroughly combined. Add more sweetener and/or lemon juice, to taste. Filter through a sieve.Slice remaining blackberries into rounds (3 or 4 per berry).Fill molds ¾ of the way with the fruit mixture. Press in a few slices of blackberries in each mold. Place popsicle sticks in the molds.Freeze until solid. Dip into warm water to unmold. Enjoy.

Chocolate Chip Cookie S’mores
8 Tablespoons Salted Butter
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Brown Sugar, Packed
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 Egg
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Chocolate Chips Or Chocolate Chunks
FOR THE FILLING:
1/4 cups Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips, Melted
1 jar (7 Oz. Size) Marshmallow Cream
1 bag (10 Oz. Size) Regular Sized Marhsmallows, Toasted
Ghirardelli Dark Chocolate Caramel Squares (optional)

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Melt butter until completely liquid. Beat butter and sugars in stand mixer until creamy. Add vanilla and egg; beat on low speed until just incorporated.Add flour, baking soda, and salt. Mix until dough forms. Add chocolate chips and stir in with spatula.Form balls of dough, either with a scooper or your hands and place on baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Bake for 9–11 minutes until cookies start to get golden brown. It is important not to over-bake them. Let cool on the pan for a few minutes before moving them to a cooling rack.Once cookies have cooled, separate them so that half are tops and half are bottoms for your sandwiches.For the filling, melt chocolate chips using a double boiler or microwave in 30-second intervals. Take a little bit of the melted chocolate and spread it on the cookies that you are using for the bottoms (spread it on the flat side). Then spread a little bit of marshmallow cream on top of the melted chocolate.Then place your toasted marshmallow on top. (We toasted ours over the flame of our stove. Just be careful!) Top the marshmallow with a chocolate caramel square if desired, and then top with another cookie.

Simple Roasted Plums with Spiced Agave
4 Ripe Plums, Pitted And Halved
2 teaspoons Agave Or Honey
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Chili Powder
Yogurt, To Serve
Fresh Herbs, Such As Thyme Or Oregano, For Garnish (optional)

Preheat oven to 400ºF. Arrange plums in a baking dish.Mix agave with cinnamon and chili powder. Drizzle plums with agave mix, using more if the plums are not sweet, or less if the plums are sweet.Roast in preheated oven until plums are very soft, approximately 30 minutes. Cool slightly and serve topped with yogurt and an additional drizzle of syrup. Garnish with fresh herbs (thyme or oregano) if desired.Store any leftovers in the refrigerator.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Spicy Hermit Bars
FOR THE BARS:
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
1 cup Brown Sugar (lightly Packed)
1 whole Large Egg, At Room Temperature
1/4 cups Molasses
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
2 cups Plus 2 Tablespoons, All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Soda
2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1-1/2 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1-1/2 teaspoon Ground Cloves
1/2 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1/2 cups Raisins
1/3 cups Crystallized Ginger (not In Syrup), Finely Minced
FOR THE GLAZE:
2/3 cups (up To 3/4 Cup) Confectioners' Sugar, Sifted
1 Tablespoon Plus 2-3 Teaspoons Dark Rum Or Milk
1/4 To 1/2 Lemon, Zested (Depends On Size Of Lemon)

For the dough, place butter and brown sugar in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and beat on medium speed for 2 minutes or until light and fluffy. With the mixer on low speed, beat in the egg. Scrape the sides of the bowl, add the molasses and vanilla and beat until well mixed.Sift together the flour, baking soda, ground ginger, cinnamon, cloves and salt. With the mixer on low speed, slowly add the dry ingredients to the butter mixture, mixing until just combined. Mix in the raisins and crystallized ginger.Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate the dough for at least 30 minutes, or long enough for the dough to become easy to handle.Preheat the oven to 350°F. Line a large baking sheet with parchment paper.Turn the dough out onto a very lightly floured board, form it into a disk with lightly floured hands and cut the dough in half. I weigh the dough before cutting to be sure I get 2 even amounts. Roll each half into a log 12 inches long. Place the logs 3 inches apart on the prepared pan.Bake at 350°F for 20–-25 minutes, until the logs are golden brown. They will still be a little soft in the center. Let the logs sit on the pan for 5-10 minutes, then slide them, still on the paper, onto a wire rack.Meanwhile, for the glaze, whisk the confectioners’ sugar with enough rum (or milk) to make a pourable glaze. Stir in the grated lemon zest.While the logs are still warm (not super hot right out of the oven), drizzle the glaze back and forth across the logs with a teaspoon. Allow to cool completely and let the glaze to set.Slide the logs off the parchment paper and onto a cutting board. Cut each log crosswise into 1 1/2 inch wide bars. Store airtight. Makes 14-16 servings.Recipe slightly adapted from Ina Garten.

Blueberry Cheesecake
FOR THE CRUST:
100 grams Whole Wheat Crackers
2 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar
1 Tablespoon Powdered Cocoa
50 grams Butter, Melted
FOR THE CHEESECAKE:
1/2 cups Water
4 Tablespoons White Sugar
250 grams Fresh Blueberries
1 teaspoon Granulated Gelatin
300 grams Mascarpone Cheese
2 Tablespoons Honey
1 pinch Powderd Cinnamon

For the crust: Crush crackers. Add powdered sugar, cocoa and then stir in melted butter. Press mixture into a 20 cm diameter cake pan’s base. Set aside.For the cheesecake: Bring water, white sugar, and blueberries to a boil. Cook over low heat and stir constantly, crushing the blueberries. Cook for about 10 minutes, until it thickens. Strain and keep the sauce.Hydrate gelatin in 50 ml of cold water. After 10 minutes, add it to the warm blueberry sauce. Blend well until it dissolves.Separately, mix mascarpone with honey and cinnamon. Add the blueberries and mix again.Pour the mixture over the crust. Bang the cake over the table to release the air bubbles and refrigerate for at least 2 hours.Best served with blueberries sauce made earlier, if you want to save some.

Blackcurrant Ice Cream
1-1/2 cup Blackcurrants
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1 cup Heavy Cream
2-1/2 cups Greek Yogurt
Fresh Blackcurrants, As Desired

In a small sauce pan, bring blackcurrants (stems removed) and sugar to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer until sugar has dissolved completely. Let mixture cool down completely.In a large bowl, whip heavy cream until stiff. Add Greek yogurt and mix well. Stir in cooled blackcurrant mixture.Pour into a freezer-friendly container and throw in fresh blackcurrants. Lightly stir them in.Freeze for at least 4 hours before serving.

Spiced Stone Fruit Streusel Coffee Cake with Almonds
FOR THE STREUSEL:
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1/4 cups Brown Sugar
1/4 cups Cold Butter
FOR THE COFFEE CAKE:
2/3 cups Ground Almonds
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2 pounds Stone Fruit
14 Tablespoons Butter
1 cup Caster Sugar
3 Large Eggs, At Room Temperature
1 teaspoon Ground Cardamom
1/2 teaspoons Ground Star Anise
1 Ground Tonka Bean Or Scraped Vanilla Bean
2/3 cups Natural Full-Fat Yogurt (I Used Sheep's Milk)
1/3 cups Red Currants (optional)

For the streusel: Place all ingredients for the streusel in a medium bowl. Crumble together with the tips of your fingers, rubbing the butter into the flour and sugar. You should end up with soft blobs of various sizes and incredible taste. There should not be any dry patches of flour left. Chill in the fridge until ready to use.For the coffee cake: Stir together all dry ingredients in another medium bowl. Set aside until ready to use.Wash and dry the fruit. Slice it open and remove the stones. Slice smaller pieces in halves (like small plums or small apricots). Medium ones should be quartered and larger peaches and nectarines sliced into wedges. Set aside.Place butter and sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment (preferably a scraper beater, it’s golden for baking). You can also use a handheld electric mixer, it will just take more time. Beat on medium speed until it looks fluffy and light in color, 3–4 minutes. The sugar crystals should start to dissolve if you pinch a little between your fingers.Add one egg at a time, beating well after each addition, adding the spices with the final egg. Your mass should have increased in size and feel/taste almost meringue-like. The grit of the sugar should be pretty much gone.Heat oven to 360°F (180°C). Prepare a 9×13 rectangular baking tin by lining it with baking parchment.Set the mixer to the lowest speed. Alternate between adding 1 tablespoon of yogurt and a few tablespoons of the dry ingredient mix. Try to finish with dry ingredients.Spread the batter in the prepared tin. Add the fruit on top, closely together, pushing it into the batter. Scatter the red currants on top (if using) and evenly sprinkle with the chilled streusel.Bake for 35–40 minutes, until a toothpick inserted comes out just clean. Cool in the pan on a rack, dust with icing sugar and slice into bars.

Blackberry and Papaya Sorbet
3 cups Fresh Blackberries
1/2 whole Papaya (peeled And Seeds Removed)
3/4 cups Sugar
1/4 cups Water
1 teaspoon Tequila
1/4 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Fresh Lemon Juice

In a blender combine all ingredients and blend on medium until blackberries and papaya are completely pureed, 30–60 seconds. If desired, strain the puree. (I typically do, but for this recipe I did not and there was no noticeble difference in taste or texture.)Transfer puree to ice cream maker and mix according to directions. Transfer sorbet to an airtight container and chill in freezer for at least 2–4 hours before serving.

Lemon Pavê (Pavê de Limão)
FOR THE BASE:
3 Egg Whites
1/2 cups Lemon Juice
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
2 cans (7.6 Oz. Size) Media Crema
1/2 cups Milk
1/4 cups Limoncello
48 Maria Cookies
FOR THE TOPPING:
2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
8 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar
3 Tablespoons Lemon Juice
3 Tablespoons Limoncello
1 Medium Lemon, Zested

Whip egg whites until stiff peaks form. Add lemon juice, condensed milk and media crema. Continue whipping until it thickens to a semi-soft cream.In a small bowl, mix milk and limoncello. Submerge cookies in milk mixture and then remove immediately. Do not soak the cookies or they will dissolve.Cover the bottom of a 9 x 13 Pyrex (or other dish with raised sides) completely in a single layer of moistened cookies. Pour half of the lemon cream mixture over the moistened cookies and spread evenly. Add a second layer of moistened cookies on top of the lemon cream. Top the second layer of cookies with the remaining cream.Cover the dish and refrigerate for about 2 hours. Discard the remaining milk and limoncello mixture.Place the bowl and whisk attachment of a mixer in the freezer for at least 5–10 minutes before making the lemon whipped cream for the topping.When the pavê is chilled, prepare whipped cream. Add heavy whipping cream and powdered sugar to the chilled bowl. Whip until cream is the consistency of heavy syrup. Add lemon juice and limoncello. Mix until whipped cream is very thick and starts to clump.Zest lemon and fold zest into the whipped cream. Top the pavê base with the whipped topping. Garnish with thin slices of lemon.Serve cold and refrigerate again immediately.

Espresso Pecan Shortbread Ice Cream Sandwich
FOR THE ESPRESSO ICE CREAM:
1 cup Whole Milk
1-1/2 cup Heavy Cream
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar, Divided
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 Tablespoons Espresso Powder
4 wheels Large Egg Yolks
FOR THE ESPRESSO PECAN SHORTBREAD:
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cups Chopped Pecan
1 Tablespoon Espresso Powder
1/2 Tablespoons Hot Water
2 sticks Unsalted Butter, Softened
1/2 cups Powdered Sugar

To prepare the ice cream, in a medium saucepan, combine milk, heavy cream, 1/4 cup sugar, salt and espresso powder. Bring mixture to simmer, until sugar is dissolved. Remove from heat and set aside.Whisk egg yolks and remaining sugar in a medium bowl until pale, about 2 minutes. Gradually whisk in half of the warm cream mixture, mix until blended. Stir yolk mixture into the remaining cream mixture.Cook over medium heat, stirring constantly, until thick enough to coat a wooden spoon, about 2 to 3 minutes. Strain custard into another medium bowl. Let cool over a bowl of ice water, or chill in the refrigerator, stirring occasionally.Process custard in an ice cream maker according to manufacturer’s instructions. Transfer to a 9 x 13-inch baking pan, level the top, cover and freeze until firm, at least 4 hours.To prepare cookie dough, sift flour and salt in a large bowl. Mix in pecans. Set aside.Mix espresso powder and hot water until the powder is completely dissolved. Cream butter and powdered sugar in a bowl of a standing mixer until light and fluffy. Beat in the espresso mixture. Reduce the speed to low and beat in the flour mixture until just incorporated.Gather dough and form a disc. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for about 30 minutes to chill.Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line 2 baking trays with parchment paper.On a lightly floured surface, roll out the dough to 1/4 inch thickness. Cut into 3-inch rounds using a floured cookie cutter. Place on the prepared baking sheets and place in the refrigerator for about 15 minutes.Bake the cookies for 8 to 10 minutes, or until cookies are lightly browned. Remove from oven and let the cookies cool a few minutes on the baking sheet before transferring them to a wire rack to cool completely.To assemble the sandwiches, remove ice cream from the freezer. Use a cookie cutter to cut out a disc of ice cream and place it on top of one cookie. Place another cookie on top of the ice cream. Lightly press to adhere the sandwich.Serve immediately. Or wrap each sandwich with plastic wrap and place them in the freezer.

High Protein Fruit & Granola Parfait
20 Blueberries, Divided
5 Strawberries, Divided
1 cup Greek Yogurt, Plain, Fat Free
1/2 Scoop Of Vanilla Protein Powder (High Protein, Low Carb)
Stevia Sweetener, To Taste (optional)
1/2 cups High Protein Granola Cereal

Wash and dry the berries. Set aside 1 strawberry and 5 blueberries. Slice remaining strawberries. Combine plain Greek yogurt and protein powder and taste. Add Stevia if you want it sweeter, 1/2 packet at a time. Keep in mind the fruit adds a natural sweetness, too.Assemble the parfait by starting with 3 to 4 strawberry slices and blueberries. Add ½ cup yogurt. Follow that with the granola. Add remaining strawberry and blueberries. Top with remaining yogurt. Add the whole strawberry and reserved blueberries for garnish.

American Buttercream
1-1/2 cup Salted Butter, Shortening, Or A Combination (I Recommend 1 Cup Butter And 1/2 Cup Shortening)
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 pounds Powdered Sugar, Sifted
6 Tablespoons To 8 Tablespoons Milk, As Needed

Cream the butter/shortening until completely smooth. Beat in vanilla extract. (If using all shortening, add 1/4 teaspoon fine sea or kosher salt.)On low speed, add sifted sugar, about 1 cup at a time, alternating with 1 tablespoon of milk. Stop frequently to scrape down the sides and bottom of the bowl. After the last addition of the sugar, evaluate the consistency of the frosting before adding more milk. Beat for 2 more minutes, on medium-high speed if a very fluffy frosting is desired.The frosting should be thick and not fall off a spatula unless tapped on the side of the bowl. Adjust consistency by adding more milk or powdered sugar as needed.Use immediately, or press plastic wrap onto the icing and refrigerate. Before using from refrigeration, stir vigorously to a spreading consistency. Frosting may be tinted if desired.

Skillet Almond Shortbread
1 cup White Sugar, Plus 1 Tablespoon, Divided
3/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
2 Large Eggs
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 teaspoon Almond Extract
1/2 cups Sliced Almonds, For Garnish

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a 10-inch cast iron skillet with aluminum foil and grease with nonstick cooking spray. Set aside.In a large bowl, add 1 cup sugar and melted butter. Stir to combine. Beat in eggs, one at a time, using an electric hand mixer or stand mixer with fitted paddle attachment.Add flour, 1/2 cup at a time, followed by salt. Add almond extract and stir well.Pour batter into prepared skillet. Top with remaining 1 tablespoon of sugar and sliced almonds.Bake for about 35–40 minutes, or until top is slightly golden. Let cool completely in skillet before using the foil to lift the shortbread from skillet.Cut into slices. Enjoy!

Spicy Pineapple Popsicles
3-1/2 cups Pineapple, Cubed
1/2 cups Lite Coconut Milk
1/4 cups Lime Juice
1/4 teaspoons Cayenne Pepper

Add all ingredients in the order listed to a high powered blender or food processor. Blend until smooth, about 1 minute.Pour the liquid into your popsicle mold. Place lid on mold and carefully insert sticks. Freeze for 3–5 hours until set. Enjoy!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

No-Churn Snickerdoodle Peach Ice Cream
1-1/2 cup Chopped Snickerdoodle Cookies
1-1/2 cup Finely Chopped Fresh Peaches
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
2 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Vanilla
2 dashes Nutmeg

Have a freezer-safe, six-cup or larger container ready. I used a 9-inch metal bread pan, which I lined with parchment paper. Glass or plastic containers may be used, but the ice cream will freeze faster in metal.In a large bowl, combine chopped cookies, chopped peaches, and sweetened condensed milk. Set aside.In a large bowl of an electric mixer, beat whipping cream until thickened. Add powdered sugar, cinnamon, vanilla, and nutmeg, and continue whipping until stiff peaks form.Gently fold the whipped cream into the sweetened condensed milk mixture. Pour into freezer container and freeze at least 5 hours.

Dee’s Lemon Bars
FOR THE CRUST:
1 cup Butter Or Margarine, Softened
1/2 cups Confectioners Sugar
2 cups All-purpose Flour
FOR THE FILLING:
4 whole Large Eggs
1-1/3 cup Granulated Sugar
2 Large Lemons, Zested
1/3 cups Freshly Squeezed Lemon Juice
1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
Confectioners' Sugar For Sifting Over Top Of Squares

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a 13x9x2-inch baking pan with foil, letting excess foil extend over sides of pan. Give it a very light spray with nonstick cooking spray. Set the pan aside.For the crust, cream butter and confectioners’ sugar until well blended. Stir flour in with a wooden spoon until well blended. Pat the crust mixture evenly in the prepared pan. Bake at 350ºF for 20 minutes.While crust is baking, in a large bowl, combine eggs, granulated sugar, lemon zest and lemon juice. Mix well. Whisk in flour and baking powder until well combined and filling is smooth.Pour filling over the hot crust. Return the pan to the oven and bake at 350ºF for 25 minutes more.Let the squares cool completely in the pan on a wire rack. If desired, cover and refrigerate until cold.Using the foil “handles,” lift squares from the pan to a cutting board. Peel the foil away from the sides of the squares. Sprinkle a light coating of confectioners’ sugar over the top of the bars, then cut into squares. I like to run the knife under very hot water and dry the blade before each cut. That makes nice clean edges on the bars.Recipe adapted from Dee Halligan.

Cherry Walnut Coconut Bars
FOR THE CRUST:
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 Tablespoon Granulated Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Unsalted Butter, Chilled
FOR THE CHERRY FILLING:
3 Tablespoons All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2 whole Large Eggs
3/4 cups Dark Brown Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 cup Unsweetened Shredded Coconut
3/4 cups Walnut, Chopped
1/2 cups Cherries, Pitted And Chopped
FOR THE WHIPPED TOPPING:
1 cup Whipping Cream
1 Tablespoon Powdered Sugar
20 pieces Cherries

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease a 9×13 inch pan, and line with parchment paper.To prepare the crust, pause all crust ingredients in a food processor until the mixture resembles coarse meal. Press mixture into the prepared pan. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes until lightly golden brown.To prepare the filling, sift flour, baking powder and salt in a bowl.In the bowl of a standing mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, beat the eggs, brown sugar and vanilla until pale in color, about 3 minutes. Reduce the speed to low and slowly add the dry ingredients. Mix until just incorporated. Add coconut, walnuts and cherries and mix until well combined.Spread the filling evenly over the baked crust. Baked for another 25 to 30 minutes or until the filling is set and lightly brown. Remove from the oven and let cool completely.To prepare the topping, whisk the whipping cream and powdered sugar until it holds firm peaks. Gently spread a thick layer of whipped cream on top of the cherry filling.Release the slab from pan. Cut it into squares. Serve with fresh cherries.

Caramel Fudgesicles
1 can (13 Oz. Size) Coconut Milk
1/4 cups Dark Cocoa Powder
4 Tablespoons Dulce De Leche
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1/2 cups Sugar
1/2 cups Rice Cereal

Place coconut milk, cocoa, dulce de leche, and vanilla in a blender and blend on high speed for 1 minute Let the mixture sit for 30 minutes.Line a small baking sheet with parchment paper and set aside.While fudgesicle mixture sets, in a small saucepan over medium heat, place sugar. Cook until deep golden, about 12 minutes. Working quickly, stir in rice krispies and pour onto lined baking sheet. Once cool, with a meat mallet or rolling pin, crush the mixture into small pieces.Divide half crushed rice krispy mixture between 8 popsicle molds. Reserve remaining krisp mixture for later.Blend fudgesicle mixture a few seconds and pour over rice krispy mixture in popsicle molds. Freeze for 3 to 4 hours or overnight.To unmold popsicles dip mold into warm water for a few seconds, unmold, dip tips of fudgesicles into the reserved krisp mixture. Wrap any leftover in plastic wrap and store in ziplock bag in freezer.

Lemon Curd Ripple Ice Cream
FOR THE LEMON CURD:
4 Large Egg Yolks
1/2 cups Maple Syrup Or Cane Sugar
1/4 cups Freshly Squeezed Lemon Juice
1 Lemon, Zested
6 Tablespoons Butter, Cut Into Tablespoon-Sized Pieces
FOR THE ICE CREAM BASE:
2-1/2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
6 Tablespoons Cane Sugar
2 Tablespoons Pure Vanilla Extract
3/4 cups Whole Milk
1-1/4 cup Lemon Curd, From Above (or Store-bought)

For the lemon curd: In a heat proof bowl (or the top of a double boiler), beat yolks for 1 minute. Add syrup or sugar and beat for another minute. Add lemon juice and zest and mix well.Place over a pan of simmering water (make sure the bottom of the bowl isn’t actually touching the water). Cook, stirring nearly constantly, until it thickens, about 10–20 minutes.Stir in butter 1 piece at a time, waiting until each piece melts before adding another one. Remove from heat and strain through a fine-mesh sieve into a storage jar.Cool until just warm. Cover and refrigerate until set, at least 2 hours.For the ice cream base: In a large mixing bowl, beat cream, sugar, and vanilla with a hand mixer until cream is thickened but not quite enough for dolloping. You want it to be a little liquid and not able to hold peaks. With the mixer on low, slowly pour in the milk and mix until well combined.Churn according to your ice cream maker instructions.Once it’s done churning, scoop ice cream into a freezer-safe storage container. Dollop half of the lemon curd over the top and fold into the ice cream with a spatula. Dollop the remaining lemon curd over the top and fold in.Freeze for several hours, or until firm (depending on how cold your freezer is, this could take as little as an hour, or up to 4 hours).For a no-churn version, mix ice cream base and pour it into a freezer-safe container. Freeze until firm but still able to be stirred, about 3 hours.Fold in the lemon curd as described above. Freeze until completely firm, several more hours.Recipe inspired by Donna Hay. Lemon curd recipe adapted from Williams-Sonoma.

Yogurt Raspberry Cake
1 stick Butter
1 cup Sugar
1 whole Lemon, Zest Only
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 whole Eggs (large)
7 ounces, weight Raspberries, Fresh
2-1/2 cups Flour, All Purpose
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 cups Plain Yoghurt

Heat oven to 360°F (180°C). Grease an 8-inch round springform pan and line the bottom with baking parchment.Beat butter and sugar until light in color, fluffy and you can feel the sugar is starting to dissolve. Beat in lemon zest and vanilla. Beat in one egg at a time, making sure each is incorporated well before proceeding.Toss raspberries in a separate bowl with 2 tablespoons of the flour. Mix remaining flour in another bowl with the baking powder.Add flour mix to the egg batter, a few tablespoons at a time, alternating with the yogurt, until everything is incorporated and you have a smooth but thick batter.Spread 1/3 of the batter in the prepared cake tin. Evenly scatter half of the raspberries on top. Repeat with another third of batter and remaining raspberries. Finish by topping with the remaining third of the batter, shaking the tin ever so slightly and tapping it onto your work surface a few times, to get the batter in between the raspberries.Bake cake for 50–55 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the middle comes out just clean. Cool in the tin for 10 minutes, then remove on a wire rack to cool completely.You can use your favorite lemon icing recipe to top this cake with, but I prefer a dusting of icing sugar and a few fresh raspberries from the garden.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Chocolate Almond Madeleines
1 cup Plus 2 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Divided
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1 cup Almond Meal
2 Tablespoons Cocoa
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
3/4 teaspoons Salt
1 cup Granulated Sugar
2 Tablespoons Brown Sugar, Packed
6 Eggs At Room Temperature
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
4 teaspoons Honey

Melt 1 cup of the butter. Set it aside to cool slightly.In a medium bowl, whisk flour, almond meal, cocoa powder, baking powder, and salt. Set aside.In a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, beat sugars and eggs on high speed until pale and very fluffy, about 6 minutes. Use a rubber spatula to scrape the sides and bottom to make sure there are no clumps. Sift the dry ingredients into the sugar and egg mixture in two separate batches, using the rubber spatula to fold them after each addition. Gently fold in the melted butter, vanilla extract, and honey. Cover and refrigerate the batter for at least 2 hours, or up to overnight.Preheat oven to 350ºF. While oven is preheating, remove batter from refrigerator and let it sit at room temperature for 10–15 minutes.Melt remaining 2 tablespoons of butter. Using a pastry brush, generously coat the wells of the madeleine pan with the melted butter. Fill each well about ¾ full with batter, spreading it out evenly. Transfer the pan to preheated oven and bake for 9–11 minutes. The madeleines will be puffed up in the center and should be firm, but still look moist.Remove pan from the oven and quickly invert the pan onto the countertop to release the madeleines. Transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.Once madeleine pan is cooled, re-butter the wells and repeat with remaining batter. I usually pop mine in the freezer for a couple minutes to cool it down.The cookies can be stored in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 2 days, but are best served immediately.

Mixed Berry Oatmeal Crisp
3 cups Mixed Berries, Fresh Or Frozen
1/2 teaspoons Cornstarch
2 teaspoons Lemon Juice
1 Tablespoon Maple Syrup
1-1/2 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
1 pinch Salt
FOR THE TOPPING:
1/4 cups Almond Flour (whole Almonds, Ground)
1/2 cups Old Fashioned Rolled Oats
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
1 pinch Salt

Preheat oven to 375ºF.In a bowl or baking dish, mix berries, corn starch, lemon juice, maple syrup, vanilla extract and salt.For the topping, in a separate bowl, mix almond flour, old fashioned rolled oats, coconut oil, maple syrup and salt. Sprinkle mixture evenly on top of berries.Bake for 15 minutes or until top is golden brown and berry base is bubbly. Allow to cool for a few minutes. Serve as is or with ice cream and enjoy!

Homemade Ice Pops
1 whole Medium Sugar Kiss Melon, Cubed (approximately 4 Cups)

Add the cubed melon to a kitchen blender. Blend until completely liquid. If necessary, you can add a little water to loosen.Carefully pour the liquid into each ice pop bag. Using a funnel will help make this process easier. Fill all the way to the max line, and then seal tightly.Place in the freezer and freeze until solid, about 2–4 hours.Note: If you don’t have access to Sugar Kiss Melons from H-E-B, you can also use other melons, like honeydew or cantaloupe.

Chocolate Zucchini Bundt Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
2 cups Shredded Zucchini
2-1/2 cups Flour
1/2 cups Baking Cocoa
2-1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Butter, Softened
1-1/2 cup Sugar
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
3 Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla
1/2 cups Whole Milk
1 cup Milk Chocolate Chips, Divided
1/3 cups Heath Milk Chocolate Toffee Bits, For Sprinkling
FOR THE GLAZE:
1/2 cups Packed Brown Sugar
4 Tablespoons Butter
4 Tablespoons Milk, Plus More As Needed
2 teaspoons Vanilla
2 cups Sifted Powdered Sugar, Plus More As Needed

For the cake: Put oven rack in lower third of oven. Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease and flour a 10-inch Bundt pan.Shred zucchini and put in a fine mesh strainer over a bowl to drain. Don’t squeeze the zucchini; just let it drain over the bowl while you prepare the cake batter.In a large bowl, whisk flour, baking cocoa, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, and salt. Set aside.In the bowl of a stand mixer, cream butter, sugar, and brown sugar on medium speed 2 minutes. Reduce speed and beat in eggs one at a time. Beat in vanilla and zucchini.On lowest speed, mix in flour mixture and milk, alternating each (add some flour mixture, then a little milk, then some flour mixture, then milk) until well combined and no streaks of flour remain.Turn off mixer and stir in ¾ cup of the milk chocolate chips, reserving the rest for topping cake. Pour batter evenly into prepared Bundt pan.Bake 40–50 minutes. Cake is done when pick inserted in cake comes out clean and cake is just beginning to pull away from sides of pan. Let set on wire rack 10 minutes.Turn cake out of pan onto serving plate or cake stand and let cool 2 hours before pouring on the glaze.For the glaze: Mix the brown sugar, butter and milk in a medium saucepan. Stir over medium heat until butter melts and brown sugar is dissolved. Remove from heat and stir in vanilla.Whisk in powdered sugar until smooth. If glaze is too runny, add a bit more powdered sugar. If it’s too thick, add a little more milk.Pour warm glaze over cooled cake and immediately sprinkle with toffee bits and remaining milk chocolate chips, pressing gently to help them stick.

Shortcut Thin Mints
10 ounces, weight Chocolate Almond Bark (Candy Coating)
1-1/2 cup Semisweet Chocolate Chips
1/2 teaspoons Mint Extract
32 Mint Flavored Oreo Thins

Line one large or two small baking sheets with parchment or waxed paper.Put almond bark and chocolate chips in a small, deep, microwavable bowl. Microwave at 30-second intervals, stirring after each 30 seconds, until chocolate is melted. Stir in mint extract.Place an Oreo on a fork and dip in chocolate. Tap the fork on the edge of the bowl to remove excess chocolate. Place on lined baking sheet. Repeat with remaining cookies.Let set at room temperature 1–2 hours or refrigerate 30 minutes. Store at room temperature or in refrigerator (let stand a few minutes before eating if refrigerated).May be frozen. Thaw completely before eating.

Mint Brownie Ice Cream
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
1/2 teaspoons Peppermint Extract, Or More If You Love A Strong Mint Flavor
2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
Green Food Coloring (optional)
2 cups Brownie Chunks
1 cup Mini Chocolate Chips
3 Tablespoons Hot Fudge Sauce, Room Temperature

In a large bowl, stir sweetened condensed milk and peppermint extract. Set aside.In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, whisk heavy cream and green food coloring, if using. (I’m sorry, I can’t give you a drop amount of food coloring as I used gel, but I would say somewhere between 3-5 drops. Start on the low end, you can always add more later.) Whisk until stiff peaks form.Using a rubber spatula, fold whipped cream into sweetened condensed milk until thoroughly combined. If you need to add more food coloring, go ahead and do it now.Gently fold in brownie chunks and mini chocolate chips. Pour into a freezer-safe container (I always use a loaf pan).Pour fudge sauce on top of ice cream and briefly swirl with a knife to incorporate. Cover and chill for 4–8 hours, or until firm.

Lemon Yogurt Cake
FOR THE LEMON YOGURT CAKE:
1/2 cups Canola Oil
3 whole Large Eggs, Room Temperature
1 cup Granulated Sugar
1 Tablespoon Lemon Zest
1 cup Plain Yogurt
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE LEMON SYRUP:
1/3 cups Granulated Sugar
1/3 cups Lemon Juice
FOR THE LEMON WHIPPED CREAM TOPPING:
1 cup Whipping Cream
1 cup Fresh Berries
1 teaspoon Lemon Zest

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease an 8-inch round cake pan.In a large mixing bowl, whisk oil, eggs, sugar, lemon zest and yogurt until well combined. Fold in flour, baking powder and salt until incorporated.Pour the cake mixture into the prepared cake pan. Bake 45 to 50 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the cake centre comes out clean.To prepare the syrup, place all the ingredients into a saucepan. Bring to the boil and stir until sugar has dissolved. Reserve a table for the whipped cream. Set aside.When the cake is done, let it cool in pan for 5 minutes. Run a paring knife around the edge of the cake to loosen it from the pan. Peel off parchment paper. Place cake on a wire rack.Pour syrup on the warm cake and allow it to soak the syrup and cool completely.To prepare the topping, whisk whipping cream and reserved lemon syrup until it holds firm peaks. Gently spread a thick layer of whipped cream on top of the cake. Garnish with fresh berries and lemon zest.

Biscoff Banana Icebox Pie
1 package (8.8 Oz. Size) Biscoff Cookies
5 Tablespoons Butter
1 cup Whipping Cream, Pplus More For Topping If Desired
5 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar, Divided
8 ounces, fluid Cream Cheese
1 jar (14.1 Oz. Size) Biscoff Cookie Butter
2 Small Banana (or 1 1/2 Large), Thinly Sliced

Butter (or spray with nonstick spray—I think butter works better) a 10-inch pie pan, 9-inch deep-dish pie pan, or 9-inch square, 2-inch deep baking pan.Process cookies with a food processor into fine crumbs (or place in a resealable bag and use a rolling pin to crush).Melt butter in a medium bowl in the microwave. Stir in cookie crumbs. Press crumbs onto the bottom and up the sides of the pie pan. Set aside.With an electric mixer, whip cream until it begins to thicken. Add 2 tablespoons powdered sugar and continue beating until stiff peaks form. Set aside.In a large mixing bowl, mix cream cheese, remaining 3 tablespoons powdered sugar, and cookie butter with an electric mixer. Fold in whipped cream until well-combined, using a rubber spatula to fold up from the bottom of the bowl. This could take 2 or 3 minutes.Spread half of the filling into the cookie crust. Spread the sliced bananas over the filling. Spread remaining filling over the bananas. Place in freezer for 1 hour.If desired, beat more whipping cream with some sugar, and top pie just before serving. Store in refrigerator.

Rhubarb Apple Brown Butter Caramel Crumble
FOR THE RHUBARB AND APPLE FILLING:
3 cups Rhubarb, Sliced Into 1 Inch Pieces
8 Prunes (optional, But Highly Recommended)
2-1/2 cups Water
6 Tablespoons Brown Sugar, Divided
4 Green Apples (I Use Granny Smith)
1/2 Lemon, Juiced
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
FOR THE CARAMEL CRUMBLE:
3/4 cups Salted Butter
3 Tablespoons Brown Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Essence
6 Tablespoons Cake Flour
5 Tablespoons Cornflour

Preheat oven to 180ºC (355ºF).For the filling: Place rhubarb in a medium saucepan with the prunes (left whole), water and half of the brown sugar. Bring to the boil and then simmer on a medium high heat for 15 minutes until rhubarb is very soft and mostly broken up. It should be quite saucy. Allow to cool for a few minutes and then remove the prunes.In the meantime, peel, core and slice the apples into small pieces. Toss in a large bowl with lemon juice, remaining brown sugar and cinnamon. Set aside for the flavours to come together.Add rhubarb mixture to the apples and toss together gently.For the caramel crumble: Place butter in a small saucepan and bring to a simmer until it goes brown, stirring constantly, watching it closely so it doesn’t burn. Add brown sugar and vanilla essence and simmer until sugar dissolves. The sauce should thicken and become a bit like caramel. Stir in the cake flour and cornflour.To assemble, pile the rhubarb and apple mixture into a 10-inch round baking dish. Top with the caramel crumble—I like to crumble it on with my fingers to get a nice even layer.Bake for 10 minutes. Turn oven down to 160ºC (320ºF) and bake another 20 minutes until apples are tender and topping is golden brown.Take the pie out of the oven and leave it to cool in the pie dish for 15 minutes before serving. Serve with whipped cream or ice cream and enjoy!Note: The prunes sweeten the rhubarb a naturally and give it a delicious caramel flavour. You can leave them out if you like, but you might need to add a bit more sugar to counteract the tartness of the rhubarb.

Lemon Poppy Seed Drizzle Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
250 grams All-purpose Flour
250 grams Granulated Sugar
50 grams Ground Almonds
255 grams Unsalted Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
4 whole Eggs
4 whole Lemons, Zested. You'll Need The Juice Later.
1-1/2 Tablespoon Poppy Seeds
Hot Water, To Loosen The Batter If Needed
Canola Oil Or Cooking Spray, For Greasing The Cake Pan
FOR THE SYRUP AND DECORATION:
10 Tablespoons Fresh Lemon Juice
8 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar, Plus Additional For Sprinkling
1 whole Small Lemon, Thinly Sliced
2 Tablespoons Toasted Slivered Almonds
Poppy Seeds, As Needed For Sprinkling On Top
FOR THE ICING:
125 grams Powdered Sugar
1 whole Lemon, Juiced, Plus An Additional Tablespoon

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Combine flour, sugar, ground almonds, butter, baking powder, eggs, lemon zest and poppy seeds in a large mixing bowl. Use a hand mixer to beat it all together thoroughly. If it is too thick and stiff, loosen it just a bit with a little hot water and mix it a little more. Liberally grease a bundt pan with oil or cooking spray and spread the batter evenly in it. Bake the cake for 30–35 minutes, until it starts to become golden and pull away from the sides of the pan.While the cake bakes, make the syrup. Combine the lemon juice and sugar in a medium sauce pan and heat it up over medium high heat. Let it come to a gentle boil while you stir it occasionally until it is has thickened and become like a syrup. Set it aside to let it stop boiling, then put the lemon slices in it. Put it back on the heat to cook the lemon slices just until they soften for a minute or two. Get out a sheet tray lined with a silicone mat and use tongs to remove the lemon slices to the tray. Reserve the syrup and set it aside.When the cake is done, let it cool for 5–10 minutes. In the meantime, reduce oven heat to 200ºF. Take the lemon slices and make a cut in each of them from the center to the outside. Twist the cut ends to make them all look like little bows. Sprinkle them all with a little sugar, then put them into the oven to dry out completely for an hour. They’ll become chewy and candied.While the cake is still in the pan, poke lots of little holes in the bottom with a tooth pick. Brush about a third of the syrup onto it and let it seep right into the cake. Turn it out onto a wire rack to finish cooling and repeat the same process on the top with the remaining syrup. Let the cake cool completely, then make the icing. Just combine the lemon juice and powdered sugar in a bowl and stir it together well until you have a thick, white icing. Set it aside.Now it’s time to assemble the cake! When the lemons are done drying out, take them out and set them aside. Transfer the cake to a cake plate and spoon the icing all over it, letting it drizzle down the sides. Sprinkle the toasted almonds and a generous dusting of poppy seeds on top of the icing. Then place the pretty bows on the very top. Serve the cake immediately and enjoy!

Nutella Doughnuts
300 grams Flour
30 grams Powdered Cocoa
1 pinch Salt
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
2 Eggs
4 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar
100 milliliters Buttermilk
4 Tablespoons Butter, Melted
5 Tablespoons Nutella, Or As Needed
200 milliliters Vegetable Oil, For Frying

First, combine all the dry ingredients: flour, cocoa, salt, baking powder and baking soda and sieve.In a separate bowl, mix eggs with sugar. Stir in buttermilk and melted butter. Add flour mixture gradually, until all flour has been added. Knead the dough, constantly dusting your hand and working surface with flour.With a rolling pin, make a 3mm thick dough sheet and cut circles around 5 cm in diameter. Add some cold Nutella to each, and close into a ball.Fry the balls over medium heat for about 3 minutes.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Zbrownies
2 Zucchini
5 Tablespoons Honey
2 Tablespoons Soft Peanut Butter
1 Egg
2 Tablespoons Powdered Cocoa
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
50 grams Dark Chocolate, Grated

Chop the zucchini. Using a hand blender, make a puree. Add honey, peanut butter, egg, and mix well. Stir in cocoa, baking soda, and chocolate.Prepare a 20cm cake pan with baking sheet and bake brownie at medium heat, about 170ºC (340ºF), for about 35 minutes.The result is amazing: a healthy, flavorful, and moist brownie.

Red, White & Blue Fruit Popsicles
1-1/2 cup Fresh Strawberries, Chopped
3 teaspoons Pure Maple Syrup, Divided
1 cup Full Fat Coconut Milk, At Room Temperature
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
1-1/2 cup Fresh Blueberries

In a blender or food processor, combine the chopped fresh strawberries and 1 teaspoon pure maple syrup. Puree the strawberries until very smooth. This should yield approximately 1 cup of pureed strawberries.Carefully pour about 2 tablespoons into each popsicle mold. We’re looking for the mold to get filled about 1/3 of the way. Place the popsicle mold into the freezer and freeze for 40 minutes to allow the strawberry puree to set. (You could move onto the next step at this time without freezing, but the popsicles will look more tie-dyed instead of clean red, white, and blue lines.)Combine the full fat coconut milk, pure vanilla extract, and 1 teaspoon pure maple syrup in a small bowl and whisk to combine. Carefully pour about 2 tablespoons of the coconut mixture into each popsicle mold, over the frozen strawberry puree. We’re looking for the mold to get filled about 2/3 of the way.Freeze this layer now for about 10 minutes until it’s solid enough to insert the wooden popsicle sticks. Carefully add a popsicle stick into each mold and then return to the freezer for another 30 minutes to harden.For the blue layer, add the fresh blueberries to a blender or food processor as well as remaining teaspoon of pure maple syrup. Transfer about 2 tablespoons into each popsicle mold over the coconut layer, filling the popsicle mostly to the top of the mold. (Don’t fill the mold completely to the top because the mixture will expand a little when it freezes.)Freeze the popsicles until completely solid, about 2–3 hours before removing them from the mold and enjoying.

No-Bake Sweet and Salty Cereal Bars
4 cups Honey Nut Cheerios
1 cup Honey Roasted Peanuts
1 cup Pretzel M&Ms
1 cup Pretzel Sticks, Roughly Chopped
3/4 cups Milk Chocolate Chips
1/3 cups Packed Light Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Light Corn Syrup
1 Tablespoon Unsalted Butter

Line an 8×8 square baking pan with aluminum foil. Generously coat with cooking spray. Set aside.In a large bowl, combine Cheerios, peanuts, M&Ms, pretzels, and chocolate chips. Set aside.In a small bowl, add brown sugar, corn syrup, and butter. Microwave on medium power until mixture is boiling and sugar is dissolved. Stir thoroughly and then set aside to cool.Once sugar mixture has cooled slightly, pour over cereal mixture and toss to coat. Pour mixture into prepared pan and press down firmly. Refrigerate for an hour, then cut into bars.Enjoy!

Pepper Peanut Butter Cookies
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
3/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Finely Ground Black Pepper
1/8 teaspoons (scant) Cayenne Pepper
1/4 teaspoons Chipotle Chili Powder
1/2 teaspoons Ground Allspice
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/2 cups Butter, Softened
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups Dark Brown Sugar
1 whole Large Egg
1/2 cups (rounded) Creamy Or Crunchy Peanut Butter

Preheat oven to 375ºF.Whisk flour, baking soda, black pepper, cayenne, chili powder, allspice and cinnamon. Set aside.In a large mixing bowl, cream butter, vanilla, granulated sugar and brown sugar until soft and fluffy. Add egg and beat until smooth.Beat in half of the dry ingredients just until incorporated. Add peanut butter and beat until smooth. Beat in remaining dry ingredients just until combined.Form dough into 48 small balls, about the size of a walnut. Place on ungreased cookie sheets about 2 inches apart. Criss cross the top of each cookie with a fork to flatten it slightly.Bake at 350ºF for 7–10 minutes or until cookies are lightly browned on the bottom. Do not overbake or the cookies will become dry. Remove from cookie sheets and cool completely on wire racks.Makes about 4 dozen.Recipe slightly adapted from Vammie on the Taste of Home cooking board.

Tropical Fruit Pizza
FOR THE CRUST:
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1 Large Egg, At Room Temperature
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1-1/2 teaspoon Cornstarch
FOR THE TOPPINGS:
8 ounces, fluid Full Fat Cream Cheese, Room Temperature
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature
2 cups Confectioners Sugar
1 Tablespoon Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/4 teaspoons Coconut Extract
Toasted Sweetened Coconut
Various Tropical Fruits, Sliced Or Chopped. (I Used Mango, Pineapple, And Kiwi)

In the large bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, cream the softened butter for about 1 minute on medium speed. Once smooth, add the sugar and beat on medium speed until fluffy and light in color. Beat in egg and vanilla. Scrape down the sides of the bowl.In another medium bowl, whisk the flour, salt, baking powder, baking soda, and cornstarch together. With the mixer running on low speed, slowly add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients. Once completely combined, cover the dough tightly and chill in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. Chilling is mandatory.Preheat oven to 350°F. Grease a 12-inch pizza pan. Remove chilled cookie dough from the refrigerator and press onto the pizza pan in an even flat circle. Bake for 18–20 minutes or until the edges are very lightly browned. Be careful not to overbake. Allow the crust to cool completely before decorating.Proceed to chop or slice the fruit as you like.Clean out your stand mixer bowl and paddle attachment for the frosting. Beat the cream cheese and butter together on medium speed until smooth, about 2 minutes. Add the confectioners’ sugar and milk. Beat for and 2 minutes. Add the vanilla and coconut extract, and continue to beat for 1 minute. Spread in a thick layer over the cooled sugar cookie crust. Decorate with fruit and toasted coconut.Cut into slices and serve. You can refrigerate leftovers but I would recommend 2 days max.

Chocolate Oatmeal No-Bake Cookies
1/3 cups Evaporated Milk
1/4 cups Baking Cocoa
1-1/2 cup Sugar
1/2 cups Butter
1 Tablespoon Peanut Butter
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1-3/4 cup Quick Cooking Oats
1/4 cups Chopped Pecans

Line one large, or two small baking sheets with parchment or waxed paper.Pour evaporated milk in a measuring cup and add cocoa. Whisk to make a slurry. Pour the slurry into a heavy saucepan and add sugar and butter.Heat on medium, whisking continuously, until mixture comes to a full boil. Boil 2 minutes while constantly whisking. Remove from heat and stir in peanut butter and vanilla with a wooden spoon.Stir in oats and nuts and continue stirring (do not beat, just stir) for exactly 2 minutes. Mixture should still look a bit shiny.Immediately drop by tablespoon onto baking sheets. A cookie scoop is helpful for this.Let cool until set completely, about 30 minutes. Store in a covered container at room temperature.

No Bake Coconut Passionfruit Bars (Gluten Free, Paleo, Vegan)
FOR THE CRUST:
1/2 cups Raw Cashews
1/4 cups Macadamia Nuts
1/4 cups Almond Flour
3/4 cups Shredded Unsweetened Coconut
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1 Tablespoon Maple Syrup
1/4 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE FILLING:
2 cups Raw Cashews, Soaked In Water Overnight Or At Least 4 Hours And Drained (See Note)
1/2 cups Coconut Milk (canned)
1/4 cups Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Maple Syrup
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Bean Paste
FOR THE PASSIONFRUIT TOPPING:
4 To 5 Passionfruit, Pulp Only
1 Tablespoon Maple Syrup

Line an 8 x 8-inch pan with parchment paper and lightly grease with coconut oil.To make the crust, add cashews, macadamia nuts, almond flour, shredded coconut, coconut oil, maple syrup, and salt in the bowl of a food processor or blender. Process until it forms a crumbly mixture. Press the crust evenly into the bottom of the prepared pan. Refrigerate for 15 minutes.In the same food processor or blender, combine all the filling ingredients. Process for 2–4 minutes, or until the mixture is smooth and creamy. Scrape down the sides if necessary. Once mixture is smooth, taste for sweetness and adjust if desired.Pour the filling over the chilled crust and smooth out the top with a rubber spatula. Place in the freezer to set for 30 minutes.While the filling is setting, prepare the topping. Combine passionfruit pulp and maple syrup in a small saucepan over medium high heat. Cook for 3–5 minutes, or until mixture slightly thickens. Cool slightly before pouring over filling. Place bars in refrigerator to set completely for at least 3 hours.Cut into bars and refrigerate until ready to serve!Note: If you are short on time, soak cashews in hot water for 30 minutes to 1 hour.

Strawberry Crumble Bars
360 grams Strawberries
280 grams All-purpose Flour
185 grams Butter, Cut Into Small Cubes, Cold
185 grams Granulated Sugar, Divided
14 grams Cornstarch

Preheat oven to 350°F(177C°). Grease 8 inch (20cm) square oven-proof dish and line the bottom and sides with parchment paper, about 2 inches(5 cm) of overhang on each side.Chop the strawberries into small pieces. If the strawberries seem very juicy, put them on the paper towel to let them dry so if there is any excess liquid, it will be removed. Set the strawberries aside.Place flour and 155 grams (3/4 cup) sugar in a big mixing bowl. Add cold butter pieces and cover with flour mixture. Rub with your fingertips until mixture looks like breadcrumbs.Put 2/3 of the dough into the oven proof dish and spread it evenly with a spoon. Keep 1/3 of the dough (200grams) in the bowl. Store the bowl in the freezer until ready to use.For the filling, toss chopped strawberries with remaining sugar and cornstarch.Cover the crust with strawberries. Remove the bowl from the fridge and gently sprinkle and cover the strawberries with crumbles.Bake for 55–60 minutes until the top becomes golden brown and crumbles are crispy. Let completely cool before removing the bars from the dish. Once cool, lift the paper from sides, remove the bars from dish, and cut into 9 pieces.

Cherry Clafoutis
2 cups Dark Sweet Cherries, Washed, Pitted, And Stems Removed
2 Large Eggs
1 cup Whole Milk Or Half-and-Half
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1/4 teaspoons Pure Almond Extract
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
1 pinch Fine Salt
Whipped Cream Or Creme Fraiche, For Garnish
Confectioners Sugar, For Dusting (optional)

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Butter six 4 1/2-inch round creme brulee dishes; place on a rimmed sheet pan. Divide cherries evenly among dishes.Combine remaining ingredients in a blender or food processor until completely combined. Pour batter evenly over the cherries.Bake in preheated oven for 30–40 minutes, or until custard begins to turn golden brown around the edges. Remove from oven and cool to room temperature or chill before serving. Garnish with whipped cream, creme fraiche, and/or a dusting of confectioner’s sugar.

Fresh Cherry Sorbet
1-1/2 cup Water
1 cup Sugar
1 Lemon, Zest And Juice
4 cups Cherries, Pitted (fresh Or Frozen)

Combine water and sugar in a medium size pot. Cook over medium-low heat until the sugar completely dissolves. Add lemon zest, juice, and cherries. Cook for 5 minutes. Use an immersion blender or pour mixture into blender and puree until smooth.If you are using an ice cream maker, pour the mixture into a bowl, cover, and refrigerate for 2 hours or overnight. Once cold, pour the sorbet mixture into bowl of ice cream maker and churn according to manual.If you aren’t using an ice cream maker, pour the sorbet mixture into a metal loaf pan. Cover and freeze at least 4 hours or until completely solid.

Coconut Oil Brownies
3/4 cups Coconut Oil
4-1/2 ounces, weight Unsweetened Chocolate
1 cup Brown Sugar, Packed
3 Eggs
3/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Salt

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Melt coconut oil and chocolate over very low, gentle heat. (You could also do it in short increments in the microwave if you want to.)Whisk chocolate mixture in a bowl with brown sugar. Whisk in eggs until mixture thickens, about 30 seconds. Stir in flour and salt until just combined. The mixture will be oily and heavy.Pour into a 9-inch square baking dish and bake for 25–28 minutes. Let cool completely before cutting so they do not fall apart.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Pavlova with Whipped Cream & Berries
5 whole Large Egg Whites
1/4 teaspoons Cream Of Tartar
1/4 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1 cup Granulated Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 teaspoon Cornstarch
FOR THE BERRIES:
4 cups Mixed Berries, Halved Or Quartered, If Large
1 Tablespoon Granulated Sugar (or To Taste)
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice (or To Taste)
1 pinch Salt
FOR THE WHIPPED CREAM:
1 cup Heavy Cream
1 Tablespoon Powdered Sugar
1 pinch Salt

Preheat oven to 300°F. Line a baking sheet with parchment, and trace a circle using a 9-inch round cake pan.Add egg whites to the bowl of a standing mixer fitted with the whisk attachment. Beat over medium speed until frothy. Mix in cream of tartar and salt, and continue to beat.When the egg whites begin to go from frothy to white, start gradually adding the sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time. After all of the sugar is incorporated, increase the speed to medium-high and beat until stiff peaks form.Add vanilla. The mixture is ready when the egg whites hold their shape, and feel smooth to the touch, rather than gritty from undissolved sugar. Sift in cornstarch and fold to incorporate.Transfer the meringue to the prepared baking sheet. Use a rubber spatula to form a cake shape, using the circle outline as a guide. A small, offset spatula can be used to refine the shape. Form the sides about 1 inch higher than the center to allow room for the whipped cream and berries to sit.Bake on the center rack of the oven for 45–60 minutes or until the pavlova is dry on the outside and makes a hollow sound when tapped. If desired, you may reduce the oven temperature to 250°F after 30 minutes and bake the pavlova for an additional hour or to desired doneness, in order to create a thicker crunchy exterior layer. When done, shut off the oven and prop the door ajar. Allow to cool completely in the oven.One hour before serving, macerate the berries. In a large bowl, combine berries, sugar, lemon and salt. Refrigerate until ready to use.For the whipped cream, add heavy cream to the chilled bowl of a standing mixer, fitted with the whisk attachment. Beat on medium-high speed for about 30 seconds, or until somewhat thickened. Add the sugar and salt. Continue to beat until soft peaks form, about 1 more minute.To serve, spread the whipped cream over the pavlova. Top with berries. Slice and enjoy.

Coconut Pie
1 whole Store Bought Frozen Pie Crust
FOR THE FILLING:
3 whole Eggs, Beaten
1-1/2 cup Granulated Sugar
1 whole Lemon, Zest And Juice
1 cup Sweetened Coconut Flakes
8 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, melted
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 pinch Salt
FOR THE TOPPING:
1/2 cups Coconut Flakes, Lightly Toasted

Note: This is pretty much a mix-and-dump-into-pie-crust pie, so yes, it’s really that easy. The only time intensive part is waiting.Preheat oven to 350ºF.In a mixing bowl, mix all the filling ingredients until nice and smooth. Pour into the frozen pie shell. Place the pie onto a cookie sheet to prevent any spillage, and then bake for 1 hour.After 1 hour, remove the pie from the oven. Top with toasted coconut flakes. Let the pie set and then place into the refrigerator for at least 1 hour to completely cool before slicing and serving.

Triple Berry Tart
FOR THE PASTRY:
1-1/2 cup Flour
1/2 cups Powdered Sugar
1/8 teaspoons Salt
8 Tablespoons Very Cold, Unsalted Butter
1 Egg Yolk
2 Tablespoons Heavy Cream
FOR THE FILLING:
2 Tablespoons Cornstarch
2 Tablespoons Flour
3 Egg Yolks
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1-1/3 cup Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
4 cups Fresh Berries, Any Three
1 Tablespoon To 2 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar, For Dusting, Or 1/4 Cup Melted Berry-flavored Jam, For Glazing (optional)

Start with the pastry crust so that it has time to chill. Add flour, powdered sugar, and salt to the bowl of a food processor. Pulse a few times to mix.Add the very cold butter, cut into ½-inch pieces, to the processor bowl. Pulse until mixture starts to form pea-sized clumps.Whisk the egg yolk into the heavy cream until fully combined. Pour the egg and cream mixture into the food processor bowl. Pulse repeatedly until the it starts to come together into a dough.Pour the dough onto a lightly floured surface. Knead a few times until it forms a smooth ball. Shape into a disk, about 4-6 inches wide. Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate for 1 hour.Meanwhile, mix corn starch, flour, egg yolks and sugar in the bowl of an upright mixer. Mix until pale yellow in color, scraping the sides frequently. Set aside.Heat milk and vanilla just until it simmers. Then remove from heat. Temper half of the heated milk into the mixer bowl, whisking as the milk is added. Continue whisking to fully incorporate. Add the egg and milk mixture back into the pan with the remaining milk. Return to the flame and cook, stirring constantly, until it thickens and bubbles. Continue cooking for 1–2 minutes more.Pour into a clean bowl and allow to come to room temperature. Then refrigerate for 1 hour.Preheat oven to 425°F.Once pastry dough has chilled for 1 hour, roll it out to just larger than the tart pan. Place rolled dough in the tart pan and trim to the top edge. Cover the bottom crust with parchment paper and then pie weights, dry beans, or an oven-safe pan or dish of appropriate size to act as a weight. Bake for 5 minutes.Reduce oven temperature to 350° F. Remove the pie weights and parchment paper. Use a fork and create small puncture marks along the bottom crust. Return to the oven and bake for about 15 minutes or until the crust is golden. Move to a cooling rack and allow to fully cool.Once the crust is cooled and the pastry cream is chilled, assemble the tart. Stir then pour the pastry cream into the tart shell, spreading evenly. Arrange the berries as desired to fully cover the pastry cream. Dust with powdered sugar, or, optionally, melt the berry jam and brush over the berries to produce a glossy glaze. Refrigerate until ready to serve.Note: A 9-inch springform tart pan is recommended for this recipe.

Banana Split Crepe Burritos
FOR THE CREPES:
2 Large Eggs
3/4 cups Milk
1/2 cups Water
1 cup Flour
3 Tablespoons Melted Butter
2 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
Additional Butter, For Coating The Pan
FOR THE TOPPINGS AND FILLINGS:
1 pint Vanilla Ice Cream
1 pint Strawberry Ice Cream
3 Ripe Bananas, Sliced Into Disks
1/2 cups Chopped Peanuts
Whipped Cream
Maraschino Cherries
For The Magic Shell
1/2 cups Good Quality Semisweet Chocolate Chips
1 Tablespoon Coconut Oil

In a blender, combine all the crepe ingredients and pulse for 10 seconds. Place crepe batter in the refrigerator for 1 hour.Heat a medium nonstick pan over medium heat. Add a thin coating of butter to the pan. Pour a scant ½ cup of batter into the center of the pan and swirl to spread evenly. Cook for 30 seconds and flip. Cook for another 10 seconds and remove from the pan. Continue until all batter is gone. Allow to cool before filling.To make the burritos, lay out a crepe on a flat surface and add a scoop of vanilla ice cream and a scoop of strawberry ice cream to the center. Place 5-6 banana slices on top of the ice cream and roll up the crepe, like you would a burrito. Continue until all of the crepes are filled. Set aside while you make the magic shell.Prepare the magic shell by placing the chocolate and coconut oil in a microwave-safe bowl. Heat on high in 20-second increments, stirring thoroughly after each, until completely smooth. Allow to cool before drizzling over rolled burritos.Top with chopped peanuts, whipped cream, and maraschino cherries. Serve immediately or transfer to the freezer to solidify for 30 minutes.

Super Food Chocolate Pecan Bark
1-1/4 cup Peanut Butter (sugar And Salt Free)
1-3/4 cup Coconut Oil
1/2 cups Cocoa Powder, Unsweetened
1 cup Desiccated Coconut
1/2 cups Honey
3/4 cups Almonds
3/4 cups Pecans
2 teaspoons Orange Zest
1/8 cups Sesame Seeds
1/4 cups Pumpkin Seeds
2 teaspoons Vanilla Essence
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt

Line a baking sheet with wax proof paper.In a medium saucepan, melt peanut butter and coconut oil until smooth, stirring occasionally. Stir in cocoa powder, desiccated coconut, honey, almonds, pecans, orange zest, sesame seeds, pumpkin seeds, vanilla essence and sea salt until evenly coated.Pour the mixture onto the baking sheet lined with wax proof paper and spread out evenly. Place baking sheet in the freezer for 1 hour. Break into pieces and store in an airtight container or bag in the freezer.

Ginger Lime Lychee Sorbet
1 cup Water
30 Lychees (peeled)
1 piece (2-inch Size) Ginger, Peeled
2 Limes, Juiced
1 cup Sugar
Fresh Mint Leaves For Garnish (optional)

Add water to a pot and set on medium heat on the stove. While that is heating, add lychees, ginger, and the juice of your limes to a blender and blend for 1 minute. Strain this mixture into a container to get rid of the pulp. Discard the pulp and set the liquid aside.Add sugar to the hot water and stir. Wait for the sugar to fully dissolve, then take off the stove and pour the syrup into the container with the lychee juice. Stir.Freeze for 3 hours, then take out, break apart, and blend into a slush. Put back into the fridge for another couple hours, then scoop and serve whenever you want. If desired, garnish with a mint leaf. Enjoy!

Grilled Pineapple
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
3 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar
1 Fresh Pineapple, Ripe But Not Too Soft, Cored If Preferred

Preheat a grill to medium heat, then lower it to low heat.Mix the cinnamon and sugar together until fully incorporated.Slice pineapple into 1/2-inch rings or chop into 1-inch chunks for kabobs. Sprinkle with cinnamon and sugar on both sides. If making kabobs, skewer the pineapple.Place the pineapple directly on the grill slats and grill for about 1 or 2 minutes per side. Do not burn. Flip when the pineapple has defined grill marks. Grill the second side for 1 or 2 minutes, then remove from the grill.Serve plain, with vanilla or pineapple yogurt, or with vanilla ice cream, topped with a sprinkle of cinnamon and sugar.

Coconut Mousse Cake
FOR THE COCONUT CAKE:
3/4 cups Plus 2 Tablespoons, All-purpose Flour
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cups Coconut Milk
1 whole Large Egg, Room Temperature
1/4 cups Canola Oil
1/2 Tablespoons Vanilla Extract
1/2 Tablespoons White Wine Vinegar
FOR THE COCONUT MOUSSE:
2-1/2 teaspoons Unflavoured Gelatin
1/4 cups Water
2 cups Coconut Milk
1/3 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Unsweetened Shredded Coconut
2 cups Heavy Cream
FOR THE MERINGUE TOPPING:
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Large Egg Whites
1 Tablespoon Water
2 Tablespoons Toasted Shredded Coconut, For Garnish

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease the bottom and sides of an 8-inch cake pan with parchment paper. Set aside.In a large bowl, mix flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda and salt.In the bowl of standing mixer with paddle attachment, mix coconut milk, egg, oil, vanilla and vinegar on medium speed until well combined. Reduce the speed to low and slowly add the dry ingredients. Mix until just incorporated.Pour the batter into the prepared pan and smooth the top. Bake 18 to 20 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the cake comes out clean. Remove the cake from the oven and let cool completely.To prepare coconut mousse, sprinkle gelatin over the water in a small bowl, let stand for 5 minutes.In a saucepan, warm coconut milk, sugar and shredded coconuts over medium-low heat until sugar is dissolved. Stir in gelatin mixture to dissolve. Remove from heat. Strain mixture through a fine-mesh sieve into a clean bowl. Let cool completely.Whip the heavy cream until it becomes stiff. Add the cream to the cooled coconut mixture and fold with a spatula until it becomes one liquid.To assemble, line the bottom and sides of an 8-inch springform pan with parchment paper. Place in the coconut cake layer. Then pour the coconut mousse mixture over the cake. Juggle to lightly level the top. Chill in the refrigerator overnight.To prepare meringue, combine sugar, egg whites and water in a large heatproof bowl. Using a handheld electric mixer, beat on high speed until foamy for a minute. Set bowl over a pan of barely simmering water. Beat on high speed until the mixture is hot to touch. Remove from heat, continue beating meringue until it becomes stiff and glossy.Remove cake from the refrigerator. Transfer cake from cake pan to a serving plate. Peel off the parchment paper. Pipe or smear the meringue on top of the cake. Using a kitchen torch, lightly brown the meringue. Sprinkle toasted coconut on top.

Blueberry Peach Crisp
3 Tablespoons White Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Nutmeg
2 teaspoons Cinnamon, Divided
5 Medium Peaches, Sliced
1-1/2 cup Fresh Or Frozen Blueberries
1/4 cups Old Fashioned Oats
1/4 cups Rice Krispies Cereal
1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
3 Tablespoons Light Brown Sugar
3 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, melted

Preheat oven to 375ºF. Lightly spray an 8-inch dish or round cake pan with cooking spray. Set aside.In a medium bowl, combine sugar, nutmeg, and half of the cinnamon. Add peaches and blueberries and toss to coat. Pour fruit mixture in prepared baking dish.In a separate bowl, combine oats, cereal, flour, brown sugar, butter and remaining cinnamon. Stir to mix well. Sprinkle topping over fruit mixture.Bake 35–40 minutes or until fruit is tender and topping is golden brown. Remove from oven and let cool. Enjoy!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Tutti Frutti Ice Cream
3 cups Sugar
2 pints Whipping Cream
3 Lemons, Juiced, Reserve A Small Amount Of Pulp
3 Oranges, Juiced, Reserve A Small Amount Of Pulp
3 Bananas, Mashed
2 quarts Half-and-half

In a large bowl, whisk sugar with whipping cream. Stir in lemon juice and pulp, orange juice and pulp, and mashed bananas.Pour into a 4-quart ice cream canister with paddle in place. Pour half-and-half into canister and stir. Process according to your ice cream maker’s manufacturing instructions.Pour into freezer-safe containers and store in freezer.

Chewy Biscoff Oatmeal Raisin Cookies
3/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1/2 cups Butter, Softened
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups Light Brown Sugar
1 whole Large Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Nut Extract OR Pure Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Biscoff Spread (or "cookie Butter")
1-1/2 cup Old Fashioned Oats
1 cup Raisins

Whisk flour, baking soda, cinnamon and salt. Set aside.In a large bowl, cream butter, sugar and brown sugar until light and fluffy. Add egg, vanilla nut (or vanilla) extract and Biscoff. Beat until smooth.Add dry ingredients, oats and raisins. Stir with a wooden spoon just until evenly mixed. Cover the bowl and chill the dough for 30–45 minutes.Preheat oven to 350ºF. Spray cookie sheets with nonstick cooking spray or line the pans with parchment paper.Form dough into rounded tablespoonfuls (I use a medium Pampered Chef cookie scoop) and place the dough 2 inches apart on the prepared pans. Bake at 350ºF for 8–10 minutes, or until golden and just firm around the edges (the center of the cookies will not be set). Let the cookies cool on the baking sheets for 3–5 minutes, then remove them from the pans to wire racks to cool completely.Makes about 2 1/2 dozen. Slightly adapted from Barbara Bakes.

Berry Cherry Crisp
FOR THE CRISP TOPPING:
3/4 cups Flour
2/3 cups Old Fashioned Oats
1/4 cups Sugar
1/4 cups Packed Brown Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/2 cups Cold Butter Cubed
3 Tablespoons Sliced Almonds
Additional Fruit For Decorating Top, If Desired
FOR THE FRUIT FILLING:
1 teaspoon Lemon Juice
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1/4 teaspoons Almond Extract
2 cups Blackberries
2 cups Pitted, Halved Cherries
3/4 cups Sugar
1/4 cups Flour

Preheat oven to 375ºF. Pour a little cooking oil on a paper towel and wipe it on the bottom and sides of a 9-inch cast iron skillet.For the crisp topping, in a medium bowl mix together flour, oats, sugar, brown sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg. Mix in butter with your hands until mixture becomes like coarse, large crumbs. It’ll take 2–3 minutes to do this. Set the topping mixture in the refrigerator while you make the filling.For the filling, in a large bowl stir lemon juice, vanilla, and almond extract. Add blackberries and cherries and toss to coat. Stir sugar into the fruit. Sprinkle fruit with flour and stir until evenly coated.Pour fruit into prepared skillet and spread evenly. Remove crisp topping from refrigerator and crumble evenly over fruit. Sprinkle sliced almonds over topping. Arrange additional fruit on top, if desired.Bake 30–35 minutes. Serve warm with ice cream.

Lime Blackberry Coffee Cake
FOR THE STREUSEL:
1/4 cups Butter, Softened
1/3 cups Plus 1 Tablespoon Sugar
1 Small Lime, Zest And Juice
3/4 cups Flour
FOR THE COFFEE CAKE:
1-1/3 cup Flour
3/4 cups Sugar
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
2 Eggs, Lightly Beaten
3/4 cups Plain Or Vanilla Greek Yogurt
1 Small Lime, Zest And Juice
6 ounces, weight Blackberries
FOR THE GLAZE:
1/2 cups Powdered Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Vanilla
Whole Milk, Half-and-Half, Or Cream, As Needed For Desired Consistency

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Generously spray (or line with parchment paper, then spray) an 8×8 baking pan with nonstick spray.For the streusel, combine butter and sugar in a small bowl. Add lime zest and juice. Mix in flour with a fork until well-combined. Set aside in refrigerator.For the cake, mix flour, sugar, baking powder and baking soda in a medium bowl. Set aside.In a small bowl, combine eggs, yogurt, lime zest and juice with a whisk. Add to the flour mixture and mix well, but don’t beat.Pour batter into prepared pan. Sprinkle blackberries over batter. Remove streusel from refrigerator and crumble it up evenly over the blackberries.Bake 30–35 minutes. Cake will look brown at edges and pick inserted in center will come out clean. Let cool at least an hour before glazing.For the glaze, mix powdered sugar with vanilla and enough milk, half-and-half, or cream to make a glaze. Spoon over cooled cake.

Chocolate S’mores Rice Krispies Cake
FOR THE CHOCOLATE CAKE:
1-1/2 cup Cake Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/4 cups Boiling Water
6 Tablespoons Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1-1/2 stick Unsalted Butter, Softened
1 cup Packed Light Brown Sugar
2 whole Large Eggs, Room Temperature
1/2 cups Buttermilk, Room Temperature
1/2 Tablespoons Vanilla Extract
FOR THE RICE KRISPIES LAYER:
3/4 cups Dark Chocolate Chips
2 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
2 cups Rice Krispies
FOR THE MARSHMALLOW FROSTING:
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1 Tablespoon Water
2 Large Egg Whites

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease three 5-inch cake pans and line the bottoms with parchment paper.To prepare chocolate cake, in a large bowl, whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt. In another bowl, whisk boiling water and cocoa powder until smooth.Beat butter and sugar together on medium speed in a bowl of a standing mixer until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs, one at a time. Beat in buttermilk and vanilla extract.Reduce the speed to low and beat in half of the flour mixture, followed by the chocolate mixture. Beat in the remaining flour mixture until just incorporated.Divide the batter and pour into the prepared cake pans. Bake 15 to 20 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the cake comes out clean. Let cool completely.For the rice krispies layer, melt chocolate and butter in a heatproof bowl over a pot of simmering water. Stir the mixture using a wooden spoon until melted and smooth. Let cool to room temperature. Then stir in rice krispies until evenly coated.Divide the mixture onto the three cake layers and spread out evenly across the tops, going right to the edges.To prepare frosting, in a large heatproof bowl, beat sugar with a handheld electric mixer for a minute until foamy. Increase speed and add sugar slowly while beating. Continue beating until meringue becomes stiff and glossy.To assemble the cake, place one chocolate cake layer on a serving plate, spread a thick layer of frosting on top. Repeat stacking two more times.Using a kitchen torch, lightly brown the top and sides of the frosting. Leave it at room temperature and serve the cake in the same day.

Kunafah
500 grams Akawie Cheese
454 grams Kataifi Shredded Dough, Thawed
3/4 cups Unsalted Butter, Melted And Slightly Cooled
1/2 cups Ricotta Cheese
1-1/2 cup Granulated Sugar
2 Tablespoons Fresh Lemon Juice
1 cup Water
1 teaspoon Rose Water
1/4 cups Raw Unsalted Shelled Pistachios, Chopped

Place akawie cheese in large bowl; add enough cold water to cover. Cover bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate 6 to 12 hours, changing water at least once. Drain, rinse well. Pat dry. Finely grate akawie cheese on small holes of box grater and set aside.Preheat oven to 350°F (180°C).Place kataifi in separate large bowl. Using fingers, separate and loosen strands. Drizzle with butter and toss to coat. Transfer half of the kataifi to greased 9-inch (23 cm) round cake pan with 2-inch (5 cm) high sides, pressing gently into bottom of pan.Sprinkle akawie cheese over top, spreading evenly. Spread ricotta evenly over top. Add remaining kataifi, spreading evenly and pressing gently into pan. Bake until golden, 55 to 60 minutes. Let cool on rack 10 minutes.Meanwhile, bring sugar, lemon juice and water to a boil in small saucepan. Reduce heat to a simmer and cook until thick and syrupy, about 2 minutes. Remove from heat and let cool to room temperature. Stir in rose water. Set aside.Run thin knife around edge of pastry to release from pan. Invert serving platter over top of pastry and turn pan upside down onto platter. Carefully lift away pan. Sprinkle pastry with pistachios. Drizzle 3/4 of the sugar mixture over top. Let stand until absorbed, about 15 minutes. Drizzle with remaining sugar mixture. Let cool to room temperature before slicing.

Red, White & Blue Shortcake
FOR THE STRAWBERRY TOPPING:
2 pounds Fresh Strawberries
1/4 cups Sugar, Or Up To Twice The Amount As Needed
FOR THE BLUEBERRY CREAM CHEESE BISCUITS:
4 ounces, weight Unsalted Butter, Cut Into Small Cubes
4 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Cut Into Small Cubes
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 cup Cake Flour
1 Tablespoon White Sugar
1 Tablespoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Salt
3/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
6 ounces, weight Fresh Blueberries
1 cup Plus 2 Tablespoons Buttermilk (I Highly Recommend Full-fat Buttermilk)
1 Tablespoon Cream
Sparkling White Sugar, For Sprinkling (optional)
FOR THE WHIPPED CREAM:
2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
1/4 cups Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

For the strawberries: Place strawberries in a medium-sized mixing bowl and pour the sugar over the top. (If your strawberries are on the sweet end, I would use ¼ cup sugar; if they’re on the less-sweet end, try add 2 to 4 tablespoons more sugar.) Stir to coat strawberries and set aside at room temperature for 20 minutes.While strawberries are sitting, go ahead and place the butter and cream cheese in the freezer.After 20 minutes, use a potato masher to mash about half of the strawberries and stir to combine. Set aside while you make the biscuits.For the biscuits: Preheat oven to 450°F and line a baking sheet with parchment paper.Add cream cheese, butter, flour, cake clour, sugar, baking powder salt, and baking soda to the bowl of a food processor. Pulse until mixture resembles coarse meal. Transfer mixture to a large mixing bowl and add blueberries, gently tossing to combine.Pour in buttermilk and use a rubber spatula to (gently!) stir until dough comes together. The dough is going to be a bit dry, but if it seems too dry to work with, add a little more buttermilk, no more than 1 tablespoon at a time, specifically targeting any large flour patches.Turn dough onto a lightly floured surface and briefly knead until dough comes together. Flour a rolling pin and roll dough into an 8×6-inch rectangle. Cut into 12 two-inch squares (I used a dough scraper) and transfer to the prepared baking sheet, sides touching.Brush tops with with cream and sprinkle with sparkling white sugar, if desired. Bake for 12–15 minutes, or until golden brown.While the biscuits are baking, place the bowl of a stand mixer along with the whisk attachment in the freezer (or whatever bowl and beater you will be using to make the whipped cream).Remove biscuits from oven and allow to cool slightly. Meanwhile, make the whipped cream.For the whipped cream, place all ingredients in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment. Whisk until soft peaks form. Transfer to a serving bowl, if desired.There are three delicious ways you can serve this: Set out warm biscuits along with the strawberries and whipped cream and allow people to assemble their shortcakes. Cut a warm biscuit in half, top with strawberries and whipped cream, top with the other biscuit half and finish with more strawberries and whipped cream. Place a whole biscuit on serving plate and top with strawberries and whipped cream.Enjoy!

Triple Berry Lemon Mascarpone Tart
FOR THE CRUST:
1-1/2 cup Graham Cracker Crumbs
1/4 teaspoons Salt
3 Tablespoons Brown Sugar
6 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, melted
FOR THE LEMON MASCARPONE FILLING:
3/4 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
4 ounces, weight Cream Cheese
8 ounces, weight Mascarpone Cheese
2 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar
1/2 cups Purchased Lemon Curd
1/2 Lemon, Zested
3 teaspoons Lemon Juice (optional)
FOR THE TOPPING:
1/2 pints Strawberries, Sliced Or Halved
1/2 pints Raspberries
1/2 pints Blackberries
Mint Leaves For Garnish

For the crust (you’ll need a 9½-inch fluted tart pan with a removable bottom): Position a rack in the center of the oven and heat the oven to 350°FCombine graham cracker crumbs, salt, sugar and melted butter and mix until well combined.Place the crumbs into the tart pan and evenly spread the crumbs so that they cover the bottom of the pan and sides. Press down on the bottom firmly to make a compact layer. Use your fingers to pinch and press some of the crumbs around the inside edge of the pan to cover the sides evenly and create a rim about a ¼ inch thick. Bake the crust until it’s golden brown and smells nutty, about 10 minutes. Set the baked crust on a rack and let cool.Note: The crust can be made up to a day ahead and stored at room temperature, wrapped well in plastic.For the lemon mascarpone filling: Beat cream and cream cheese together on high speed with a hand mixer or a stand mixer until soft and creamy, about 3 minutes. Add softened mascarpone cheese and powdered sugar and beat on medium speed until mixed well (don’t over-beat, mascarpone can separate). Add lemon curd and lemon zest and mix on low until just combined. Taste, and if you want more tartness, add the lemon juice.Pour the cream mixture into the cooled tart crust and level it with an offset spatula or butter knife. Chill for at least 3 hours (overnight is fine too). Top the tart with the berries and garnish with mint leaves if desired. Serve chilled (I like to take it out of the refrigerator 15 minutes before serving).

Jam Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
1/4 cups Butter
1-1/2 cup Sugar
4 whole Eggs
1 cup Buttermilk
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
3 cups Flour
2 Tablespoons Cocoa Powder
2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice
1-1/2 cup Blackberry Jam
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 teaspoons Lemon Juice
FOR THE ICING:
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese
1 cup Softened Butter
2 cans (13.4 Oz. Size) Dulce De Leche
2 Tablespoons Heavy Whipping Cream, Or More As Needed

For the cake: Preheat oven to 350ºF.Cream butter and sugar well. Add eggs in one at a time until light and fluffy.In a separate bowl, combine buttermilk and baking soda. Set aside.Slowly add flour, cocoa powder and pumpkin pie spice to the butter mixture, alternating with buttermilk (with baking soda dissolved in it). After everything is mixed in, add jam, vanilla, and lemon juice.Spoon into 4 greased and floured cake pans or 2 pans with batter leftover for cupcakes (that’s what I did because I don’t have a large cake dome). Bake cakes at 350ºF for 35 minutes, or as my ancient cookbook says, until done. Poke the cake with a wooden skewer in the middle, it should come out clean.For the icing: Beat cream cheese and butter at a medium speed until creamy. Add dulce de leche 1 can at a time, beating until blended after each. Gradually add whipping cream, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating at a medium speed. Add up to 2 more additional tablespoons until frosting is at the desired spreading consistency. Spread frosting between cake layers and on top and sides of cake.Recipe adapted from Southern Living 50th Anniversary Edition and The Acadian Bi-Centennial 1955.

Pudim de Leite (Brazilian-Style Flan)
FOR THE CARAMEL SAUCE:
1 cup Sugar
1 cup Water
FOR THE CUSTARD:
2 cans (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
1 can (Use Condensed Milk Can) Half-and-Half
1 can (Use Condensed Milk Can) Whole Milk
4 Eggs

For the caramel sauce, in a heavy, wide-bottomed pan, melt the sugar over medium heat. Stir the sugar frequently so it does not burn. Once the sugar has melted into a liquid and all solids have dissolved, cook it for a minute more, stirring constantly, until it is mahogany-colored.Carefully add the water. The caramel may blister into crunchy skins. Keep stirring until all the solids have melted back down and the mixture becomes thick and syrupy.Pour the caramel syrup into the bottom of a solid tube pan. Tilt the pan and work the caramel up the sides about halfway, leaving a caramel coating on the sides of the pan. This will help the custard to release after cooking.Preheat oven to 350° F.Add sweetened condensed milk, half-and-half, milk, and eggs into a blender. Blend just until fully mixed.Pour the milk and egg mixture into the tube pan, aiming the flow directly over the tube. Pouring the custard mixture over the tube first will help prevent over-mixing of the caramel and the custard, as well as reduce the number of bubbles in the custard after baking. (If your tube pan has a hole in the tube, seal it with plastic wrap for this step, and then remove the plastic wrap after pouring.)Place the tube pan in a large, oven-safe dish with raised sides (such as a roasting pan). Seal the top of the tube pan with tin foil.Fill the roasting pan with hot water to half the height of the tube pan to create a bain-marie. Bake on the center rack for 1 hour and 30 minutes.Lift the tube pan from the bain-marie and carefully remove the tin foil so as not to burn yourself in the trapped steam. Allow the contents of the pan to cool. Once cooled, refrigerate for a minimum of 6 hours, preferably overnight.Before serving, use a long, thin, sharp knife to work the edges of the pan, both on the sides and around the tube. Carefully keep to the edge of the pan. The custard is very soft and will be easy to cut into, which may make it break when flipping.Place a large serving dish with raised sides upside down and centered on top of the tube pan. With one hand under the tube pan and one hand over the upside down serving dish, flip the two so that the serving dish is on the bottom and the tube pan on top. The custard should now be transferred to the serving dish, as well as a large amount of caramel sauce.Use a spatula to remove any caramel sauce still in the tube pan and pour it over the custard ring. Serve cold.Note: You will need a one-piece tube pan for this recipe, not a springform tube pan. The uncooked contents will be too runny for a springform pan.

Blueberry Cheesecake Jars
FOR THE BLUEBERRY TOPPING:
3/4 cups (scant) Granulated Sugar, Or As Needed Depending On Sweetness Of Berries
3 Tablespoons Cornstarch
1/8 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1/4 cups Cold Water
5 cups Fresh Blueberries, Divided
1 Tablespoon Unsalted Butter
1 Tablespoon Fresh Squeezed Lemon Juice
1/2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
1/8 teaspoons Almond Extract
FOR THE GRAHAM CRACKER CRUST:
1 cup (rounded) Graham Cracker Crumbs
3 Tablespoons Light Brown Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
FOR THE CHEESECAKE LAYER:
8 ounces, weight 1/3 Less Fat Or Regular Cream Cheese, Softened
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups Plain, Low-fat Greek Yogurt
2 Tablespoons Fresh Squeezed Lemon Juice
2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
1 Lemon, Zested

For the blueberry topping, in a medium saucepan, combine sugar, cornstarch and salt until well-mixed. Add cold water and whisk until mixture is smooth and cornstarch has dissolved. Stir in 3 cups of the blueberries. Bring the mixture to a boil over medium-high heat. Cook, stirring constantly, until the mixture is thick and bubbly and sauce turns dark purple, about 2–3 minutes.Remove pan from heat. Add butter, lemon juice, vanilla, almond extract and remaining 2 cups blueberries, stirring until well-combined. Set pan aside for the mixture to cool to room temperature.For the crust, combine graham cracker crumbs, brown sugar, cinnamon and salt in a medium bowl, stirring until well-mixed. Pour melted butter over crumbs and stir until all the crumbs are evenly coated with butter.Place 3 rounded tablespoons of the crumb mixture into the bottom of 6 half-pint canning jars. Press crumbs down to make a firm layer. (I use my Pampered Chef Tart Tamper—that works perfectly.) If you have some crumbs left over, divide them between the jars and press them down. Set the jars aside.For the cheesecake filling, beat cream cheese and sugar in a medium bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed (I use my electric hand mixer) until light and fluffy. Add Greek yogurt, lemon juice, vanilla and lemon zest. Beat on medium speed until mixture is smooth and fluffy.Divide cheesecake filling evenly between jars. Lightly tap the jar on the counter to even out the layer on the top.Place 2 to 3 spoonfuls of the blueberry mixture on the top of the cheesecake layer. Using the back of the spoon, lightly spread the topping evenly over the filling. You’ll probably have some topping left.Place the lids on the jars and refrigerate until serving time. Makes 6 half-pint jars.Note: If you don’t want to make the blueberry topping from scratch, 1a 20-ounce can of blueberry pie filling can be substituted.Adapted from Chin Deep. Topping recipe adapted from The Best of Country Cooking 2001.

Salted Peanut Brownie Bites
FOR THE TOPPING:
1/4 cups Roasted Peanuts, Finely Chopped
1-1/2 Tablespoon Brown Sugar
1-1/4 teaspoon Sea Salt
FOR THE BROWNIE BITES:
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter
1 Tablespoon Canola Oil
1 cup Sugar
2 Large Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
3/4 cups Unsweetened Cocoa (dutch Processed)
1/4 teaspoons Salt

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease a mini muffin tin with nonstick spray. Set aside.Mix together the topping ingredients with your fingertips. Set aside.In a medium-sized bowl, melt butter in the microwave for approximately 50 seconds. Mix in oil, sugar, eggs and vanilla until combined (about a minute). Add flour, cocoa powder and salt. Mix until just combined.Drop about 2 tablespoons batter into each mini muffin tin. Top with the peanut sugar mixture.Bake for 12–15 minutes. Brownies should still have a bit clinging to the inserted toothpick. Let cool for 5 minutes in the pan then transfer to a cooling rack.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Mini Coconut Almond Bars
1/2 cups Butter, Melted
2 cups Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla
3 cups Coconut
40 To 48 Whole Almonds
FOR THE CHOCOLATE DRIZZLE:
1/2 cups Dark Chocolate Chips
1 teaspoon Butter

Line a baking sheet with parchment or waxed paper.In a medium bowl, whisk ½ cup melted butter, powdered sugar, and vanilla. Stir in coconut.Drop 1 1/2 tablespoons of coconut mixture on to prepared baking sheet and form into a small, oblong bar, a little over 2 inches long and about 1 inch wide. Repeat with remaining coconut mixture. You should end up with 20 to 24 bars.For the chocolate drizzle, in a small bowl, melt the dark chocolate chips and butter in the microwave on medium power, stirring frequently. Don’t overheat.Pour melted chocolate in to a sandwich size zipper bag. Make sure the bag is completely closed and snip off a little bit of one corner of the bag.Squeeze a small bit of chocolate on the top of each coconut bar and immediately place 2 almonds, end to end, on top of the chocolate. Repeat with the remaining coconut bars and almonds. There will be a little chocolate left over.Drizzle remaining chocolate over the top of each coconut almond bar. Refrigerate until set, 30 minutes. Store in refrigerator. May be frozen in a single layer in an airtight container after the initial 30-minute refrigeration time.

Molotov Pudding & Berry Sauce
11 Egg Whites
11 Tablespoons Sugar
1 Tablespoon Glucose
FOR THE SAUCE:
1 cup Strawberries
1/2 cups Blueberry
1/2 cups Raspberry
2 Tablespoons Powder Sugar
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice
1 dash Vinegar
1 pinch Salt

Preheat oven to 180ºC (350ºF) and place a baking tray inside. Grease a tube pan and set aside.In a standing mixer with a whisk attachment, whisk egg whites for 1 minute or until foamy. Then start adding sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, giving it time to incorporate before the next addition.Add glucose and whisk 2 minutes more. At this point, the whites should be bright and fairly consistent.With the help of a spatula, place the meringue in the tube pan and pack tightly to eliminate all air pockets. When finished, bang with the pan on the bench and smooth the top.Place in the oven and add hot water to the tray to create steam. Bake for 11 minutes, then turn off the oven and leave the Molotov in the oven with the door closed for 30 minutes. Then open oven door a little bit (place a cork or a wooden spoon to keep it ajar) and wait for it to cool.Loosen the Molotov edges from the pan and unmold carefully.For the sauce, place all the ingredients in a blender, Thermomix or food processor, and blend. If you prefer, you can pass the sauce through a sieve.Pour sauce over Molotov only when serving. Until then, store the Molotov and sauce in the refrigerator.

Lemon Lavender Shortbread Cookies
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1/4 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1/4 cups Powdered Sugar, Sifted
1/2 teaspoons Dried Lavender Flowers, Finely Chopped Or Ground
1 teaspoon Lemon Zest
1 stick Unsalted Butter, Softened At Room Temperature
FOR THE LAVENDER CREAM:
1/2 cups Heavy Cream
1 Tablespoon Dried Lavender Flowers
FOR THE GLAZE:
1/2 cups Powdered Sugar
1-1/2 Tablespoon Lavender Cream
1 Tablespoon Milk (I Used Whole)

Preheat oven to 350°F. Line a baking sheet with a silpat or parchment paper.Mix flour and salt together in a bowl.In a large bowl, mix together sugar, lavender and zest. Add butter and work together using a rubber spatula. This can also be done in a standing mixer.Add the flour to the butter/sugar mixture in two additions, mixing until just combined.Press dough together in a ball and flatten into a disc. Do not overwork. Cover in plastic and refrigerate at least 30 minutes or until firm yet pliable. You can also refrigerate up to overnight. If the dough becomes too tough to work with after refrigeration, set out at room temperature for as long as 30–60 minutes, or until the appropriate texture.Flour your work surface very lightly. Using a rolling pin, roll dough ¼ inch thick. Cut using a 2-inch round cutter, and place onto the prepared baking sheet. Re-roll the remaining dough and repeat the process. Refrigerate for about 10–15 minutes or until firm.Bake on the center rack of the oven for about 15–18 minutes or until golden brown. Allow to cool for 5 minutes, then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.While the cookies are baking, prepare the lavender cream. In a small pot, bring the cream and lavender to a rapid simmer. Cover and remove from heat. Allow to steep for 20–30 minutes, or until cream tastes strongly of lavender. Cool to room temperature and then refrigerate until ready to use (you will not need all of it for the glaze).While the cookies are cooling, prepare the glaze. Strain lavender cream, saving the lavender flowers for decoration, if desired. In a bowl, whisk together the powdered sugar, 1 ½ tablespoons of lavender cream and milk. Add more milk or cream, based on your desired level of lavender flavor and thickness of the glaze.If desired, you may decorate the cookies with some of the lavender reserved from the cream. Using tweezers, dip the flowers into the glaze and place on the cookies in any pattern as you prefer. Be cautious not to use too much lavender, as it can be bitter and overpowering. Return cookies to the wire rack until the glaze sets up completely. Enjoy.

Easy Cantaloupe Sherbet
3 cups (rounded) Diced Cantaloupe
4 Tablespoons (generous) Sweetened Condensed Milk
1 pinch Kosher Salt
1/2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract

Spread the diced cantaloupe on a rimmed baking sheet. Cover and place the pan in the freezer until the fruit is frozen solid, at least 2–3 hours. I usually leave it in overnight. Place the sweetened condensed milk in the refrigerator to chill.Remove the tray of fruit from the freezer and leave it on the counter for a few minutes while assembling remaining ingredients. It makes the fruit not as rock hard so your food processor won’t have to labor as much chopping through it.Place the cantaloupe, condensed milk, kosher salt and vanilla extract in the bowl of a food processor fitted with a steel blade. Pulse the mixture a few times to get the fruit chopped into small bits, then process until the mixture becomes smooth and creamy. It may not look like it’s processing much and could form a ball and spin around the processor bowl for a bit. That’s okay—in a minute or so it will start to smoothen out. Stop the machine every so often and scrape down the sides to make sure all the cantaloupe is being processed. It will take a few minutes for the mixture to get really smooth. You’ll know it’s ready when it’s the texture of soft-serve ice cream. That’s easy to check by grabbing a spoon and giving it a taste—what’s hard to do is to put the spoon down after you’ve tasted it!Scoop the sherbet into a freezeable container. Cover and freeze for at least 4 hours or until firm enough to be scoopable. When ready to serve, remove the container from the freezer and let it sit on the counter for about 10 minutes to make it easy to scoop, or you can put the container in the microwave on high for 10 seconds or so to soften the sherbet slightly.Makes about 1 pint.Recipe adapted from Bigger Bolder Baking.

Rosemary-Infused Fudgy Chocolate Brownies
1/2 cups Coconut Oil
4 sprigs Fresh Rosemary
6 Tablespoons Cocoa Powder
1 cup Cake Flour
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
3/4 cups Brown Sugar
3/4 cups Dates, Very Finely Chopped
2 Eggs
1 cup Greek Yoghurt
2 teaspoons Vanilla Essence

Preheat oven to 170ºC (340ºF). Grease an 9 x 9 inch square pan with sides that are at least 2 inches tall.Place coconut oil in a small saucepan and melt. Drop in the rosemary sprigs and gently simmer over medium heat for 5 minutes. Set aside to cool. Once cool, strain the oil through a sieve into a bowl to ensure there is no fresh rosemary left in the oil.Sift cocoa powder, flour, salt and baking powder into a large mixing bowl. Stir in sugar and dates, making sure the dates are evenly distributed and not clumping together.In another bowl, lightly whisk eggs, Greek yoghurt and vanilla essence together, then stir in the rosemary-infused coconut oil. Pour the wet mixture into the dry ingredients and stir until just combined. (Be careful not to overstir.)Pour the batter into the square pan and spread until even. Bake for 25 minutes. They’re done when you press down lightly on the top of the brownies and they bounce back. They should be cooked on the outside and soft and fudgy in the centre.Allow the brownies to cool for 15 minutes in the pan, then slice them into squares and cool completely on a cooling rack, or serve warm!Notes: You can replace the brown sugar with dates. These brownies are also delicious made sugar-free.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Chocolate Cupcakes with Peanut Butter Frosting
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 cup Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
3/4 cups Unsalted Butter
1-1/2 cup White Sugar
3 Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1-1/2 cup Milk, Any Kind (I Used 2%)
FOR THE FROSTING:
1 cup Unsalted Butter, Softened
1-1/2 cup Creamy Peanut Butter
4 cups Powdered Sugar
3 Tablespoons Heavy Cream
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line 36 muffin tins with paper liners. Set aside.In a medium bowl, combine flour, baking soda, and salt. Set aside.In a small bowl, add chocolate chips and butter. Microwave on medium power for 1 1/2 to 2 minutes, or until chocolate chips are melted, stirring halfway through. Once melted, stir thoroughly to remove any lumps. Set aside.In a large bowl, add sugar and melted chocolate. Beat with an electric hand mixer or stand mixer with fitted paddle attachment until combined. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition, followed by vanilla extract. Beat in flour mixture until smooth, alternating with milk.Spoon mixture 2/3 full into each muffin tin. Bake for 20–-22 minutes, or until toothpick inserted into center of cupcake comes out clean. Remove from oven and let cool completely.To make the frosting, add butter and peanut butter to a large bowl. Cream for 3 minutes until light and fluffy. Add powdered sugar, 1/2 cup at a time, beating well after each addition. Add heavy cream and vanilla extract, stirring to combine.Pipe or spread onto cooled cupcakes and top with a mini peanut butter cup, if desired. Enjoy!

Pressure Cooker Cheesecake with Toffee, Pecans and Caramel
1/2 cups Chopped Pecans, Divided
1-1/4 cup Graham Cracker Crumbs
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
1 pound Brick-style Cream Cheese, Softened
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Large Eggs, At Room Temperature
1/2 Tablespoons All-purpose Flour
1/4 cups Cottage Cheese (preferably Small-curd)
1/2 Lemon, Zest And Juice
1/2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
Caramel Ice Cream Topping And Toffee Bits, For Topping

You will also need: 6-inch springform pan, buttered food processor pressure cooker steam rackUsing a mortar and pestle, crush 2 tablespoons pecans. In a small bowl, combine crushed pecans, graham cracker crumbs and butter until evenly moist. Press into the bottom and halfway up the sides of the prepared pan.In food processor, process cream cheese and sugar until smooth, scraping down the sides of the bowl as needed. With the motor running, add eggs through the feed tube and process until smooth. Add flour, cottage cheese, lemon zest, lemon juice and vanilla; process for 2 minutes or until smooth and creamy. Pour batter into the pan.Add 2 cups water (or the amount required by your cooker to reach pressure) to the pressure cooker and place the steam rack in the pot. Place the pan on the rack. Close and lock the lid. Cook on high pressure for 25 minutes. Let stand, covered, until the float valve drops down. Check to make sure a tester inserted in the center of the cheesecake comes out clean; if more cooking time is needed, reset to high pressure for 5 minutes. Carefully remove pan and rack; let stand on rack for 1 hour. Remove the edges ring of the pan, cover and refrigerate cheesecake for at least 6 hours or up to 2 days.Sprinkle remaining chopped pecans and toffee bits on top of the cheesecake. Heat caramel ice cream topping in the microwave or in a small saucepan, 30 seconds or until just softened. Drizzle caramel on top of the nuts and toffee.Notes: Make sure not to overprocess the mixture in step 2, or the cheesecake will become too firm and not as creamy. Instead of the graham cracker crumbs, you can use crushed vanilla wafers, chocolate wafers or shortbread cookies.

No-Bake Brownie Bites
1/2 cups Almond Flour
1/4 cups Chocolate Protein Powder
2 Tablespoons Cocoa Powder
2 Tablespoons Almond Butter
2 Tablespoons Honey Or Agave
2 Tablespoons Almond Milk

Mix all of the ingredients in a small mixing bowl until evenly combined. If it seems too dry, add a bit more almond milk (it should be similar to cookie dough).Roll 1 tablespoon of dough into a smooth ball and place on parchment paper. Repeat until the dough is gone, then eat or chill in the fridge.

Banana Chocolate Chip Oatmeal Cookies
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Cornstarch
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/4 teaspoons Ground Ginger
2 pinches Salt
1 cup Mashed Banana
1-1/2 stick Unsalted Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
1-1/2 cup Dark Brown Sugar
1 whole Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
3 cups Old Fashioned Oats
1 cup Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350ºF and line three baking sheets with silicone mats or parchment paper. Combine the flour, corn starch, baking soda, cinnamon, nutmeg, ground ginger and salt together in a bowl and whisk them together to aerate them. Set the dry ingredients aside. Then set up a stand mixer with the paddle attachment. Beat the mashed banana, softened butter and dark brown sugar together in it thoroughly until it is smooth. Add the egg and vanilla next. Turn the speed to low and slowly pour in the dry ingredients just until they disappear in. Finally, switch to a spatula and fold in the oats and chocolate chips.Use a 1 1/2 inch cookie scoop to scoop out perfect portions of the cookie dough onto the sheet trays. The recipe makes about 40, so I did 15 on two of the sheets and 10 on the third. Bake the cookies for 12–15 minutes, rotating the trays halfway through to ensure even baking. They should become slightly brown around the edges. Let them cool for 4–5 minutes on the sheet trays, then transfer them to cooling racks to finish cooling. Serve them immediately with a frosty glass of milk! They will also keep well for days in airtight containers.

Hula Pie
FOR THE CRUST:
18 whole Oreo Cookies, Crushed
1/4 cups Melted Butter
FOR THE FILLING:
1 gallon Vanilla Ice Cream, Softened
1 cup Chopped Macadamia Nuts
FOR THE TOPPINGS:
1/4 cups Hot Fudge Sundae Topping
1/2 cups Chopped Macadamia Nuts
2 cups Whipped Topping (Cool Whip)

Preheat oven to 325ºF.For the crust, stir together Oreos and butter. Press into a greased 9-inch pie pan. Bake for 10 minutes. Cool.For the filling, in a very large bowl, stir softened ice cream and macadamia nuts. Pour into the cooled crust, mounding as needed. Freeze 4 hours or longer until very firm.For the toppings, drizzle the hot fudge sundae topping on the pie. Sprinkle macadamia nuts over top. Freeze again until ready to serve.Cut into slices and serve each slice topped with whipped topping and additional macadamia nuts if desired.Alternatively, prepare in a 9×13 pan, cutting into 15 squares to serve.

Classic Cheesecake
FOR THE CRUST:
1-3/4 cup Graham Cracker Crumbs
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
FOR THE CHEESECAKE:
2 packages (8 Oz. Size) Cream Cheese, Softened
2 cups Sour Cream, Room Temperature
1 cup Granulated Sugar
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Lemon Zest
3 Tablespoons Lemon Juice
3 whole Large Eggs, Room Temperature
FOR THE WHIPPED CREAM TOPPING:
1 cup Whipping Cream
1 Tablespoon Powdered Sugar, Plus More For Dusting
2 cups Fresh Berries And Cherries

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease an 8-inch springform pan.Make the crust by mixing all the crust ingredients together in a food processor. Press the mixture onto the bottom of the springform pan. Bake crust for 10 to 12 minutes. Set aside to cool. Turn down oven temperature to 250ºF.In a clean and dry food processor. mix cream cheese, sour cream, sugar, vanilla extract, lemon zest and juice until combined. Add eggs, one at a time, until incorporated. Pour the filling in the prepare pan.Bake for 80 to 90 minutes, or until the edge of the cheesecake is puffed but the centre is still wobbly and wet looking. Turn off the oven and, with the door slightly opened, let the cheesecake sit in the oven to cool completely, at least 1 hour.Remove from the oven. Chill overnight. Remove cake from springform pan and place on the serving plate.To prepare the topping, whisk the whipping cream and powdered sugar until it holds firm peaks. Gently spread a thick layer of whipped cream on top of the cake. Garnish with the berries and cherries. Sprinkle powdered sugar on top before serving.

Peach and Blueberry Galette
1 cup Finely Sliced Peaches
1 cup Blueberries
4-1/2 Tablespoons Sugar, Divided
2 Tablespoons Cornstarch
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 whole Unbaked 9 Inch Pie Crust
1 Egg, Beaten

Preheat oven to 400ºF.Mix sliced peaches, blueberries, 1/4 cup (4 tablespoons) sugar, cornstarch, lemon juice, and vanilla in a bowl. Set aside.Place rolled out pie crust on parchment-lined baking sheet (or silicone mat). Arrange the fruit mixture in the center of the pie crust, leaving about 1 1/2 inches around the outside rim of the crust without fruit. Fold the extra pie crust towards the center. Don’t worry about being too perfect!Brush the crust with the beaten egg and sprinkle with remaining 1/2 tablespoon sugar. Bake for 35–40 minutes, or until crust is light golden brown.Serve with ice cream or whipped cream.

Vanilla Sandwich Cookies
1/2 pounds Butter
1 cup Sugar
2 Eggs
2-1/2 cups Self Raising Flour
5 Tablespoons Raspberry Jam, Or As Needed
FOR THE ICING:
1/3 cups Powdered Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/2 Tablespoons Melted Butter
1/4 teaspoons Hot Water

Preheat oven to 180ºC (355ºF). Line a baking tray with parchment paper.In a bowl, beat butter and sugar until creamy and butter is smooth. Add eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition. Gradually add the self-raising flour, beating after each addition.Take about 1 teaspoon of the mixture, and roll into a small bowl. Lay out dough onto parchment paper, leaving adequate room for cookies to spread. Bake for 8–10 minutes, until cookies are just very lightly browned. Cool on a wire rack.Once cooled, pair cookies according to roughly size. Spread a small amount of raspberry jam and sandwich cookies together.Place powdered sugar/icing sugar in a bowl. Melt butter in microwave 20 seconds and add to icing sugar along with hot water and vanilla. Stir until smooth and relatively thick.Ice cookies and leave so icing can set.

Apple Zucchini Crumb Bars
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 cups Packed Light Brown Sugar
1 cup Quick Oats
1/2 cups Vegetable Shortening
1-1/4 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon, Divided
1/2 pounds Zucchini, Unpeeled Or Peeled, Sliced Into 1/8-inch Thick Slices
1 whole Granny Smith Apple, Cored, Peeled And Sliced Into 1/4-inch Thick Slices
1 whole Red Apple (your Choice Of Apple), Cored, Peeled And Cut Into 1/4-inch Thick Slices
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
2 Tablespoons Butter, Cut Into Small Pieces

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line an 8x8x2-inch pan with foil or parchment paper, making sure to have some excess over the edges to make removing the bars from the pan easy. Spray with nonstick cooking spray. Set the pan aside.In a large bowl, whisk flour, salt and baking soda. Add brown sugar and oats, then stir until well combined. Cut in shortening until the mixture resembles fine crumbs.Press half of the flour-oat mixture into the bottom of the prepared pan. Stir 3/4 teaspoon cinnamon into the remaining crumb mixture.Place the zucchini and apples in a medium bowl. Stir together the granulated sugar and remaining 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon in a small bowl, mixing until thoroughly combined. Add the cinnamon/sugar to the zucchini and apple slices. Using a wooden spoon or your hands (which is what I use), toss until the zucchini and apples are coated with the sugar mixture.Place the zucchini and apple slices onto the crust. Sprinkle the vanilla over the apple mixture, dot the top with the pieces of butter, then evenly spread the remaining crumb mixture over all.Bake at 350ºF for 45–55 minutes or until the apples and zucchini are tender and the crumb topping is golden brown. Cool completely in the pan. Cut into 9 bars. Serve warm or cold.Slightly adapted from A Family Feast.

Raw Vegan Strawberry Coconut Truffles
1/3 cups Strawberries
4 Tablespoons Coconut Cream
1 Tablespoon Coconut Oil
3 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
1 cup Desiccated Coconut

Wash and mash the strawberries. I used a fork, but you can do it in a blender or food processor if you prefer.Mix the coconut cream, coconut oil and maple syrup together. Add the mashed strawberries and mix thoroughly.Start adding the desiccated coconut little by little, while mixing everything together. Using a silicone spatula helps a lot.Shape truffles out of the mixture (if the mixture is too soft, you can put it in the fridge for 30–40 minutes until it hardens a bit, or add some more desiccated coconut).They need a few hours in the fridge to set up.

Chewy White Chocolate Macadamia Nut Cookies
2-1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1-1/2 teaspoon Cornstarch
1/2 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
3/4 cups Loosely Packed Light Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1 Large Egg
1 Egg Yolk
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 cup White Chocolate Chips
1/2 cups Chopped Macadamia Nuts

Whisk the flour, baking soda, cornstarch, and salt together in a large bowl. Set aside.In a medium bowl, whisk the melted butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar together until smooth. Whisk in the egg, egg yolk, and vanilla extract. Pour the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients and mix together with a rubber spatula.Fold in the white chocolate and macadamia nuts until evenly distributed. Cover the dough and chill in the refrigerator for at least 3 hours. Your patience will be rewarded. I have popped them in the freezer for 30 minutes before, but you’ll always get a better cookie the longer you let it chill.After it’s chilled, removed the dough from the refrigerator and allow to slightly soften 10 minutes. While you wait, preheat oven to 325°F.Line two large baking sheets with parchment paper and set aside.Using a medium cookie scoop (highly recommended), scoop out balls of cookie dough. Place 8 balls of dough onto each cookie sheet. Do not press down, the height of the ball will prevent the cookies from spreading too much. Bake the cookies for 12 minutes. The cookies will look underbaked, but they’re not. Allow them to cool on the cookie sheet for 10 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Bruleed Tapioca Pudding
1/2 cups Large Tapioca Pearls, Soaked Overnight In Room Temperature Water
2-1/2 cups Milk
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2 whole Eggs, Separated
1/2 cups Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Fine Sugar, Or 1 Tablespoon Per Serving, To Serve (optional)
1 cup Blueberries, To Serve (optional)

Start by soaking the tapioca pearls in room temperature water, overnight. The next day, drain the water from the tapioca, gently rinse, and drain again. Set aside.Warm up milk, just before it comes to a boil. You do not want the milk to come to a boil, so keep an eye on it.Once milk is warmed through, add salt and tapioca pearls. Stir, being careful not to boil the milk. Once milk begins to slightly bubble on the sides of the pot, reduce heat to very low heat, and cook tapioca pearls for 60 minutes, again making sure the the milk never comes to a boil.During this time, separate egg yolks from whites, reserving both. In a bowl, add yolks to 1/2 cup sugar, and mix together to form a nice paste. Gently mix in some of the hot milk mixture to the sugar and yolk mixture. This is called tempering—the goal is to warm the yolks through without scrambling them. You can use a couple of tablespoons of that milk mixture, slowly, to achieve that process. Once you have that ready, add this mixture to the pot of milk and tapioca pearls and stir.Turn up the heat and stir, cooking for about 15 minutes or until tapioca thickens.During this time, take reserved egg whites and beat until stiff. Once stiffened, slowly stir into the cooked tapioca, adding the vanilla extract as well.Pour into serving bowls, and place into the refrigerator to completely cool (unless you like warm tapioca, that’s your call).Now the fun part, at least for me and the kids. Add some fine sugar to the top of each tapioca bowl, get your kitchen brulee torch out, and caramelize the top of the sugar. Once done, add some blueberries (I used frozen for texture), and dig in.

Dark Chocolate Mousse
4 whole Egg Yolks
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1 pint Heavy Cream, Divided
1 Tablespoon Cocoa Powder
1/4 teaspoons Godiva Chocolate Liqueur
1 cup Dark Chocolate Chips

Whip up the egg yolks in a bowl with a hand mixer until they become pale yellow and thick for about 3 minutes. Slowly add in the granulated sugar while you continue to mix. Set the egg mixture aside. Get a medium saucepan on the stove and heat 1 cup of the heavy cream in it over medium heat. Once it just starts to bubble around the edges, scoop 1/2 of it into the bowl of egg yolks and stir it in. Then return the egg mixture back into the pan, along with the cocoa powder and Godiva liqueur. Stir it constantly until it cooks through and thickens for about 5 minutes. Do not let it boil, keep an eye on the heat. Then stir in the chocolate chips until they melt in.Take the pot off of the heat and transfer the chocolate mixture to a sealable, heat proof container. Give it a stir, then seal it up and chill it for 2 hours. As it chills, take it out and stir it occasionally since the liquid will separate out. It will solidify, don’t worry. When the 2 hours are up, take the remaining heavy cream and whip it up until it is stiff, fluffy whipped cream in a large bowl. Take the chilled chocolate mixture and use a spatula to fold it into the whipped cream thoroughly. Serve it immediately in pretty bowls or use in countless ways, like cake filling! It will keep sealed in the refrigerator for a couple of days.

Strawberry Meringue Chocolate Mousse Cake
4 whole Egg Whites
1 box (1/3 Oz. Size) Strawberry Gelatin Powder
1 Tablespoon Cornstarch
1 Tablespoon Balsamic Vinegar
1 cup Granulated Sugar
2 cups Chocolate Mousse (See My TK Recipe Box)
6 whole Strawberries, Thinly Sliced, Plus An Additional One For Garnish
Chocolate Shavings, For Sprinkling On Top

Preheat oven to 225ºF and line two baking sheets with silicone mats. Crack the egg whites into a mixing bowl and whip them up a little with a hand mixer just for about 30 seconds. They should get foamy. Then mix in the gelatin powder, corn starch, and balsamic until fully combined. Finally, add in the sugar and keep whipping the mixture up until it forms stiff peaks. Divide the mixture into 3 equal portions. Fill a piping bag with the first portion and pipe it into a large circle on the baking sheet. Start in the center, then keep going around like a snail shell. Pipe the second portion onto that baking sheet in another circle. Then pipe the third circle on the second baking sheet since the first one will be full.Bake the meringues for about 2 hours, until they are completely firm but still shiny. Leave them in the oven for 6 hours at least to dry out. I recommend making this in the evening and just leaving them overnight. Once the meringues are ready, the easiest way to remove them from the sheet trays is to just peel the silicone mat off of the bottom. Put the first layer on a cake plate and spread 1 cup of the chocolate mousse on it. Then place half of the sliced strawberries on the mousse. Repeat that with the next layer of meringue, mousse and strawberries. Finish the cake with the final layer on top. Garnish the top with shaved chocolate and a fanned out strawberry. Serve immediately and enjoy!

Strawberry Champagne Pops
2 cups Champagne, Any Kind (I Used A Sweeter Champagne)
3 Medium Strawberries, Sliced

Pour champagne into pop molds, filling halfway. Add several sliced strawberries to each pop mold and then fill with champagne to the top of the pop mold, if needed.Add pop sticks to each mold and freeze until solid, for at least 2–3 hours. Enjoy!

Gluten-Free Hazelnut Brownies
5 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
8 ounces, weight Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1/3 cups All-purpose Gluten-free Flour
1 cup Roasted And Unsalted Hazelnuts Chopped
Whole Hazelnuts, For Topping (optional)

Preheat oven to 325ºF. Grease and 8×8 pan.In a large microwave safe bowl, melt butter and chocolate chips in the microwave for approximately 40 seconds. Stir. Let mixture cool for about 5 minutes.Add sugar and whisk; mixture will be grainy. Add eggs one at a time and whisk well after each addition. Add vanilla extract, salt and flour. Whisk until well incorporated. Fold in chopped hazelnuts.Pour mixture into the pan. Top with whole hazelnuts if desired, and bake for 20–25 minutes. Enjoy!

Tex-Mex Brownies
1/2 cups Butter Or Margarine
2 ounces, weight Unsweetened Chocolate
1/2 teaspoons (up To 1 Teaspoon) Cayenne Pepper (add More Or Less To Your Taste)
1/2 teaspoons Instant Espresso Powder
2 whole Large Eggs
1 cup Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
1 teaspoon Chocolate Extract (optional)
1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1/4 teaspoons Kosher Salt
3/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1 cup Bittersweet Or Semisweet Chocolate Chips

Preheat the oven to 325ºF. Take an 8×8-inch baking pan and flip it over so the bottom faces up. Take a piece of aluminum foil larger than the pan and mold the foil over the bottom of the pan. Remove the foil, flip the pan right side up and insert the folded foil into the pan, smoothing out the sides and corners, making sure to have an overhang on at least 2 sides. Spray the foil with nonstick cooking spray. If you don’t want to use this technique, grease and flour the pan. Set the pan aside.Melt the butter and chocolate together in a small saucepan over low heat, stirring occasionally. Stir in the cayenne pepper and instant espresso, then set the the mixture aside to cool slightly.In a large bowl, whisk the eggs and sugar until light and fluffy. Whisk in the vanilla and chocolate extract (if using). Add the chocolate mixture and stir with a wooden spoon until smooth and well blended.In a small bowl, whisk together the flour, salt and cinnamon. Add this to the chocolate/egg mixture and stir just until everything is combined.Pour the batter into the prepared pan. Bake at 325ºF for 30 minutes or until the brownies are firm and set in the center. Remove the pan from the oven and sprinkle the chocolate chips over the top of the cooked brownies. Let sit until the chips melt. What I do is put the pan back in the oven with the door open and the oven shut off. It only takes 1–2 minutes for those chips to soften. Once the chocolate chips are soft, take a small offset spatula and spread the chocolate evenly over the brownies. Let the brownies cool completely on a wire rack. Make sure the chocolate is set before cutting.If using foil in the pan, lift the brownies from the pan with the foil “handles”, peel the foil away from the bottom of the brownies and place them on a cutting board. Use a long sharp knife that is run under hot water and dried after each slice and cut the brownies into 16 (2-inch) squares. Makes 16 brownies.Recipe adapted from Chocolate Lovers Cookies and Brownies.

Chocolate Fridge Cake
14 ounces, weight Good Quality Dark Chocolate, Coarsely Chopped
3/4 cups Unsalted Butter, Cubed
1/4 cups Golden Syrup
7 ounces, weight Digestive Biscuits, Broken Into Pieces
1 cup Mini Marshmallows

Line a 9×5-inch loaf pan with foil or parchment paper, and set aside.In a heat-proof bowl over a pan of simmering water, melt chocolate, butter, and golden syrup. Remove from the heat, and allow to cool for 10 minutes.Stir in biscuits, and then marshmallows. Spread the mixture into the prepared pan, and refrigerate until set, about 2–3 hours or overnight.Cut into slices and enjoy!

Blueberry Paleo Ice Cream
1 Frozen Banana
1/2 cups Frozen Blueberries
3/4 cups Full-fat Coconut Milk
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla
Squeeze Of Pure Honey

Place all of the ingredients in a high speed blender for about 30–60 seconds or until evenly combined. Divide into serving bowls and serve immediately.This melts pretty quickly on warm days, so we like to put it in the freezer for about 5–10 minutes before serving so it’s fairly solid.

Baked Lemon Raspberry Doughnuts
FOR THE DOUGHNUTS:
2 cups Plain Or All Purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 Large Egg
1/2 cups Caster Or Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/4 cups Milk
1/4 cups Greek-style Yogurt
2 Tablespoons Vegetable Oil
1 Tablespoon Fresh Lemon Juice
1 Lemon, Zested
3/4 cups Fresh Raspberries
FOR THE GLAZE:
1 cup Icing Or Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Fresh Lemon Juice
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
2 Tablespoons Milk

For the doughnuts: Preheat oven to 180ºC (350ºF or Gas 4). Grease a doughnut pan and set aside.Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Set aside.Whisk egg, sugar, vanilla, milk, yogurt, oil, lemon juice, and zest until combined. Pour wet ingredients into dry ingredients and mix until just combined. The batter will be quite thick. Gently fold in raspberries, letting them break up as you mix. Do not over-mix.Spoon the batter into the prepared doughnut pan and smooth out the tops. Fill to the top for nice, thick doughnuts. Bake for 7–10 minutes or until a toothpick inserted comes out clean. Allow to cool for 5 minutes before transferring them to a wire rack to cool completely.For the glaze: Whisk icing sugar, lemon juice, vanilla, and milk until smooth and combined. Use 1 tablespoon of milk for a thicker glaze, or 2 tablespoons for a thinner glaze. Dip each doughnut into the glaze, and leave to set on the wire rack.

Double Chocolate Chip Cookies
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
1/2 cups Packed Light Brown Sugar
1/4 cups White Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
2 Large Eggs
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1/2 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1 teaspoon Instant Coffee Granules (or Espresso Powder), Optional
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2 cups Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips (or A Mix Of Semi-sweet And Bittersweet)

Preheat oven to 350°F and line a cookie sheet with parchment paper or a silpat baking mat.In a large mixing bowl and using a handheld mixer, cream butter, sugars, and vanilla until smooth, light, and creamy. Add eggs and mix until just combined.Add flour, cocoa powder, instant coffee, baking soda, and salt, and mix until just combined. Do not overmix! Use a rubber spatula to fold in chocolate chips.Place in heaping 2 tablespoonful mounds on the prepared cookie sheet, spacing about 1 inch apart. (If you want larger cookies for ice cream sandwiches, you might increase the amount of dough to about 1/4 cup.)Bake for 10–12 minutes, or until cookies are just set. Transfer pan to a wire rack to allow cookies to cool.Note: To make ice cream sandwiches, place the cooled cookies in freezer for about 20 minutes. (About halfway through, bring the ice cream out to soften slightly.) Once cookies are done in the freezer, place 1 scoop of ice cream on the flat side of a cookie and top with another cookie, flat side down, pressing down lightly.

No Bake Chocolate Biscuit Cake
4 cups Digestive Biscuits
2-1/2 cups Dark Chocolate
1-1/2 cup Unsalted Butter
1/2 cups Condensed Milk

Break the biscuits and throw them in a large bowl.Melt the chocolate and butter over a pot of simmering water (or in a microwave). Remove from the heat. Stir in the condensed milk.Pour melted chocolate over crushed biscuits and stir until all the pieces are well covered with chocolate. Line a loaf cake tin with baking parchment paper (make sure all 4 sides are lined). Fill the tin with biscuit mixture and press down hard using the back of a spoon. Scrape chocolate from the sides of your bowl and pour this over the biscuit cake. Spread evenly.The cake is now ready to be chilled. Cover with tin foil and refrigerate overnight. When set, cut into slices and enjoy!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Apricot Coconut Popsicles
2 cups Apricots
1/4 cups Coconut Milk
3 Tablespoons Honey
3 Tablespoons Coconut Oil

In a food processor, process all the ingredients until smooth. Pour into popsicle molds and insert sticks inside. Freeze for at least 4 hours before serving.

5-Ingredient Gluten-Free Walnut Cookies
1 cup Walnuts
2 whole Eggs
4 Tablespoons Flax Meal Or Ground Flaxseed
3 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Cinnamon

Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F).Grind the walnuts, reserving some whole walnuts for decoration.Whisk eggs. Add the rest of the ingredients and mix everything together.Shape cookies and decorate them with a walnut. Bake for about 15 minutes.Let them cool and enjoy!

Baked Alaska
FOR THE CHOCOLATE CAKE:
1 cup Granulated Sugar
3/4 cups Plus 2 Tablespoons, All-purpose Flour
6 Tablespoons Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
3/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
3/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 whole Large Egg, Room Temperature
1/2 cups Sour Cream, Room Temperature
1/4 cups Canola Oil
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Boiling Water
FOR THE ICE CREAM:
9 cups Vanilla Ice Cream, Divided
1/2 cups Strawberry Puree
1/2 cups Mango Puree
FOR THE MERINGUE FROSTING:
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1 Tablespoon Water
2 Large Egg Whites

To prepare the cake, preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease an 8-inch cake pan and line bottom with parchment paper.In a large bowl, mix sugar, flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda and salt. Crack in egg, spoon in the sour cream, and pour in the oil and vanilla. Mix with a wooden spoon until just combined. Pour in the boiling water, and slowly mix until smooth and liquid.Pour batter into the prepared cake pan. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the cake comes out clean.Place the cakes (in the pans) on a wire rack to cool. Then invert the cakes onto a greased rack. Cool completely. Then slice cake layers in half horizontally. Reserve one layer for future use.To prepare ice cream, let ice cream sit in room temperature for 10 minutes to soften. Scoop 3 cups of vanilla ice cream, and mix in with the strawberry puree to make strawberry ice cream. Add mango puree to another 3 cups of vanilla ice cream to make mango ice cream.To assemble, lightly grease a 3-quart bowl and line with plastic wrap with overhang long enough to cover the top. Fill the base of the bowl with strawberry ice cream, followed by mango ice cream and the remaining vanilla ice cream. (If ice cream becomes too soft, chill each layer in the freezer for 10 minutes before adding another layer.)Top the ice cream with the chocolate layer cake. Cover the cake with plastic wrap overhang. Return it to the freezer and freeze at least 4 hours.To prepare frosting, in a large heatproof bowl, beat egg whites and water with a handheld electric mixer for a minute until foamy. Increase speed and add sugar slowly while beating. Continue beating until meringue becomes stiff and glossy.Remove the ice cream cake from the freezer. Invert the cake onto a serving plate and wrap a hot kitchen towel around the bowl for 20 seconds. Loosen the bowl and remove the plastic wrap.Smear the meringue frosting thickly on the top and sides of the cake. Using a small metal spatula to create swoops and peaks.Using a kitchen torch, lightly brown the frosting. Serve right away.

Raspberry Cheesecake Popsicles
1 package (8 Oz. Size) Cream Cheese
1/2 cups Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Plain Yogurt
1 package (6 Oz. Size) Raspberries
1 whole Graham Cracker, Crumbled

Combine cream cheese, powdered sugar, vanilla, and yogurt in a medium-sized mixing bowl. Beat until smooth with a hand mixer or whisk.Mix raspberries in with a spoon, smashing a few along the way.Gently fold in graham cracker crumbs.Spoon the mixture into popsicle molds and freeze overnight.

Campfire Cupcakes
1 box (15 1/4 Oz. Size) Your Favorite Flavor Cake Mix
Additional Required Ingredients Specified In Mix Package (typically Water, Eggs And Oil)
2 sticks Butter, Room Temperature
1/4 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/4 teaspoons Almond Extract
4 cups Powdered Sugar
1 jar (13 Oz. Size) Marshmallow Fluff
Food Coloring (Red, Orange, And Yellow)
1 bag 16 Oz. Bag Thin Pretzel Sticks (you Will Not Need Them All)
Sprinkles Or Sanding Sugar
1 bag 10.5 Oz. Bag Mini Marshmallows ( You Will Not Need All Of The Bag)
Toothpicks

Prepare cake mix according to package directions for cupcakes (you’ll typically need water, eggs, and oil, as directed in mix package).In the bowl of a stand mixer (or in a large bowl with a hand mixer), beat butter and extracts until light and fluffy. Add powdered sugar and beat until smooth and creamy. Beat in marshmallow cream.Divide frosting into 3 small bowls. Tint frosting red, orange, and yellow.Place a blob of frosting in the center of the cupcake. Break 3 thin pretzel sticks in half; it does not need to be exact. This will be your base. Place the pretzel halves, broken end in the frosting, and space them evenly around the cupcake, like a pinwheel.Using the tinted frosting, place “flames” in a random pattern over the pretzels on the cupcake, alternating the colors. Be sure to leave ends showing (they are your logs).Once you have the desired flames, sprinkle the flames with sparkly flakes just for a little something extra. Sanding sugar would be great, too.Use thin pretzels to create a tee-pee like effect over your flames. The frosting will hold them in place.For your toasted marshmallow garnish, place 2 mini marshmallows on a wooden toothpick and use a lighter to toast them to your desired doneness. Let them rest for a minute (or they will fall off the toothpick), then garnish your campfire.

Mississippi Mud Cheesecake
FOR THE CRUST:
24 pieces Chocolate Wafer Cookies
1 Tablespoon Instant Coffee Granules
1 Tablespoon Sugar
1/4 cups Melted Butter
FOR THE FILLING:
9-3/4 ounces, weight Chopped Bittersweet Chocolate
1/4 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
2 teaspoons Instant Coffee Granules
3 Tablespoons Cornstarch
1/4 cups Sugar
8 ounces, weight Softened Cream Cheese
4 Large Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Chopped Pecans
FOR THE TOPPING:
6 ounces, weight Chopped Bittersweet Chocolate
1 Tablespoon Sugar
2 Tablespoons Milk
1/2 cups Marshmallow Cream
Bittersweet Chocolate Curls, For Garnish
1/4 cups Chopped Pecans

For the crust: Preheat oven to 350ºF or 175ºC. Grease a 3-inch by 9-inch springform pan with butter.Blend cookies, coffee granules and sugar in a processor. Add melted butter and mix until properly combined. Spread prepared mixture evenly onto bottom but not the sides of prepared pan. Bake for 5 minutes and set aside to cool. Maintain oven temperature.For the filling: Melt chopped bittersweet chocolate over a double boiler, stirring occasionally until chocolate melts. Cool the melted chocolate until lukewarm, but make sure it is still pourable.Add cocoa powder, instant coffee granules, cornstarch and sugar in a processor. Blend until smooth. Mix softened cream cheese and beat well until cheese is incorporated properly and all lumps disappear.Stir in eggs, one at a time, mixing slowly after each addition, just until blended. Add vanilla extract with the last egg. Add lukewarm chocolate and chopped pecans to this mixture and stir until blended properly.Pour filling over the prepared crust and smoothen the top surface. Bake at 350ºF for 15 minutes, then reduce temperature to 200ºF and bake for another 2 hours.Cool for 5 minutes. Run knife around the rim of pan to loosen cake and chill overnight.For the topping: Melt chocolate, sugar and milk in a saucepan over low heat, until smooth.Pour marshmallow cream on the center of the cheesecake, then spread it evenly over the top. Drizzle a layer of the chocolate mixture on the marshmallow cream and garnish with bittersweet chocolate curls and chopped pecans. Transfer cheesecake to platter and serve chilled!

Cinnamon Walnut Coffee Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
5 Tablespoons Butter
1 cup Sugar
1/3 cups Vegetable Oil
3 Large Eggs
1 teaspoon Salt
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
2-1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 cup Sour Cream
FOR THE FILLING:
1/2 cups Walnuts, Chopped
1/2 cups Chocolate Chips (optional)
1/2 cups Sugar
1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
3 Tablespoons Butter, Melted

Preheat oven to 350°F.For the cake: In a mixing bowl, beat butter, sugar and oil until fluffy. Add eggs one at a time and beat until incorporated. Add salt and flavorings and beat until well blended.In a separate bowl, whisk flour, baking powder, and baking soda. Add the flour mixture to the egg mixture alternating with the sour cream, mixing on slow speed until just blended.For the filling: Combine nuts, chocolate chips (if using), sugar, flour, cinnamon, and butter in a bowl and mix well.Spoon half of the cake batter into a lightly greased 9-inch tube or bundt pan. Sprinkle 2/3 of the filling onto batter and then top with the remaining batter. Sprinkle with remaining filling.Bake for 55 minutes or until a toothpick comes out clean. Remove the cake from the oven and let it cool in the pan for 15 minutes. Remove from the pan and let cool on a rack until completely cooled. Enjoy!

No-Churn Snickerdoodle Ice Cream
2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
5 Sugar Cookies, Roughly Chopped

In a large bowl, whip heavy cream with a hand mixer or stand mixer with fitted paddle attachment until stiff peaks form. Set aside.In a medium bowl, whisk sweetened condensed milk, vanilla extract, and cinnamon. Gently fold cinnamon mixture into whipped cream until just combined, followed by sugar cookie pieces.Pour mixture into a freezer safe container. Top with additional sugar cookie pieces, if desired. Cover and freeze for at least 4 hours, or until firm.Enjoy!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Cherry Avocado Chocolate Mousse
1/2 cups Dates
2 Large Avocados
1 cup Cherries, Stoned
1/2 cups Natural Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1/2 cups Coconut Milk Drink
1/8 teaspoons Pink Salt

Soak dates in water for 30 minutes.Cut avocados in half and remove pit. Scoop out the flesh and place it in a food processor. Add remaining ingredients: cocoa powder, dates, cherries, coconut milk drink and salt. Blend until smooth and creamy.Serve cold in small glasses, decorated with cherries.

Glazed Brownies
120 grams Butter
100 milliliters Milk
50 grams Dark Chocolate Pieces
50 grams Powdered Cocoa
1 Egg, Whole
180 grams White Sugar
125 grams Yogurt
190 grams Flour
1 pinch Salt
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
FOR THE GLAZE:
1 teaspoon Gelatine
50 milliliters Water, Divided
80 grams White Sugar
70 grams Honey
70 milliliters Condensed Milk
80 grams Dark Chocolate Pieces

Melt butter and add milk. Keep the heat low and stir in chocolate and powdered cocoa. Blend well, then set aside.In a separate bowl, mix egg with sugar. Add yogurt. Add this mixture to the chocolate.In a different bowl, combine flour, salt, and baking powder. Gradually add to the chocolate mixture.Preheat oven to 180ºC (355ºF) and line a baking tray with parchment paper. Bake brownies for about 30 minutes.For the glaze, add gelatine to half of the water and let it hydrate for 15 minutes. Meanwhile, over low heat, add remaining water, sugar and honey. Cook for 2 minutes. Set aside and stir in condensed milk, chocolate, and gelatine mixture. Mix well until you have a smooth and shiny glaze.Gently pour some hot glaze over the cooled brownies, without smoothing or touching it. Let it cool.

Simple Paleo Reese Cups
1 cup Smooth Almond Butter (or Peanut Butter If Not Strict Paleo)
1 Tablespoon Coconut Oil
1 Tablespoon Honey
1/2 cups Unsweetened Shredded Coconut (optional)
1 cup Dark Chocolate Chips (use Enjoy Life Brand If Strict Paleo)

Place almond butter, oil and honey in a glass bowl and microwave for about 30 seconds or until melted. Stir in shredded coconut until evenly combined. Divide the mixture into each opening of a mini muffin tin (fills 12 openings).Place the chocolate chips in the glass bowl then microwave for about 30 seconds or until melted. Pour melted chocolate on top of each muffin tin then place the tin in freezer for about 1 hour.Take muffin tin out of freezer. Carefully scrape a knife around the edges and the peanut butter cups will pop out fairly easy. Handle with care.

Rhubarb Rose Galette
4 cups Rhubarb, Sliced 1/2-inch Thick
2/3 cups Granulated Sugar
1 Tablespoon Cornstarch
Pinch Of Salt
2 Tablespoons Rosewater
1 Store Bought Or Homemade Pie Crust
1 Large Egg Lightly Beaten With A Splash Of Water
Turbinado Sugar, For Sprinkling On Crust

Preheat oven to 375ºF and line baking sheet with parchment or a Silpat.Place rhubarb in a large bowl and add sugar, cornstarch, salt, and rose water. Mix well until combined.Roll out pie dough to an 11-inch disc and place on the lined baking sheet. Place rhubarb in the middle of the pie crust, leaving a 2-inch border. Fold dough over and pinch to enclose the rhubarb, leaving the center open.Brush crust with egg wash and sprinkle with coarse sugar.Bake for 35–40 minutes, until crust is golden and juices are bubbling. Cool on sheet for 10 minutes. Slide off with parchment onto wire rack to cool completely.Serve warm with a scoop of strawberry ice cream.

Pineapple Upside Down Cake
4 Tablespoons Butter (melted And Divided)
1 can (20 Oz. Size) Sliced Pineapple Rings In Pineapple Juice, Juice Reserved
10 whole Maraschino Cherries, Stems Removed
1 cup Dark Brown Sugar, Divided
1/4 cups Chopped Walnuts, Divided
1 box (18 Oz. Size) Yellow Cake Mix
1/2 cups Canola Oil
3 whole Eggs

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Then get out two 9-inch cake pans and pour half of the melted butter into each of them. Brush some of the butter along the sides of the pans as well to grease them thoroughly. Lay 5 pineapple slices in each of the prepared pans with 1 in the center and the other 4 around it. Place a cherry in the center of each of the pineapple slices. Then pack 1/2 a cup of brown sugar in each pan around the pineapple slices to create what will be a gorgeous top layer. Finally, sprinkle 2 tablespoons of the chopped walnuts onto the brown sugar.For the yellow cake mix, follow the box instructions. It will usually call for adding 1 cup water, 1/2 cup canola oil and three eggs. Instead of the water, replace it with the reserved pineapple juice from the can, which is exactly a cup. Mix it all together well into a smooth batter, then evenly divide it among the two cake pans. Bake the pineapple upside down cakes for about 25 to 30 minutes, until golden and toothpick inserted in the center comes out cleanly. Let them cool for half an hour, then turn them out onto cake plates. Serve immediately and enjoy!

Grandma’s Fresh Blueberry Peach Pie
6 whole Peaches
1-1/2 cup Blueberries
1/3 cups Sugar
2 Tablespoons Flour
FOR THE CRUST:
2 cups Flour
1/3 cups Butter
1/8 cups Ice Water
1 whole Egg

Heat oven to 400ºF.Peel and slice the peaches. Place in a large bowl. Add blueberries. Sprinkle with sugar and flour. Mix well and set aside.For the pie crust, sift flour into a large bowl. Add butter and mix with a fork or pastry blender until mixture resembles small peas. Make a well in the center and add ice water. Mix together, being careful not to overwork the dough so that it does not become tough. Shape into a ball and refrigerate for 20 minutes.Divide dough in half. On a lightly floured board, roll out one half into a 15-inch circle. Carefully fold in half and place into a 9-inch or 10-inch pie plate. Press evenly onto bottom and sides of pie plate. Evenly spoon the fruit mixture into the pie plate.Roll out second half of dough and place on top of fruit. Pinch and crimp edges together. Make slits in top of dough.In a small bowl, beat egg and brush over the top of the pie. Bake at 400ºF for 12 minutes. Lower temperature to 350ºF and bake for 30 to 35 minutes.

Healthy Strawberry Yogurt Popsicles
1-1/4 cup Fresh Strawberries, Finely Chopped
1-1/2 cup Plain Yogurt, Any Variety
1/4 cups Honey
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract

In a food processor, finely chop the strawberries (about 10 large whole strawberries will make 1 1/4 cup chopped).In a medium mixing bowl, stir chopped strawberries, plain yogurt, honey, and vanilla. Pour yogurt mixture into popsicle molds. Freeze popsicles for at least 3 hours, or until completely frozen.Enjoy!

Shortcake Sheet Cake
1 cup Milk, Preferably Whole
2 Tablespoons Butter
2 cups Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
4 Eggs
2 cups Sugar
2 teaspoons Vanilla
Fresh Fruit, Whipped Cream, Or Ice Cream To Top Cake

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Generously grease a 15 ½ x 10 ½ x 1 inch pan.In a saucepan over low heat (or in the microwave on low power), heat milk with butter just until butter is melted. Set aside to cool to lukewarm.Whisk flour and baking powder. Set aside.In the bowl of an electric mixer, beat eggs 2 minutes. Gradually add sugar and beat on medium speed until mixture is thickened and lightens in color, 3–4 minutes. Beat in vanilla.Reduce speed and blend in flour mixture just until combined. On low speed, beat in cooled milk-butter mixture.Pour batter into prepared pan. Tap the pan a couple of times on the countertop to eliminate any air bubbles. Bake 23–26 minutes, until light golden brown on top and pick inserted in center is clean.Cool 10 minutes, then run a thin knife around the edges of the cake to loosen. Cool completely before cutting. I find that cutting this with a plastic knife is easiest and keeps the cake from tearing. Store leftover cake at room temperature loosely covered.

Neapolitan Poke Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
16-1/2 ounces, weight Strawberry Supreme Cake Mix
1 cup Milk
3 Eggs
1/3 cups Vegetable Oil
FOR THE CHOCOLATE PUDDING:
1 cup Milk
4 ounces, weight Chocolate Pudding
FOR THE FROSTING:
2 teaspoons Vanilla
8 ounces, weight Extra Creamy Whipped Cream
6 Strawberries, Chopped, For Topping
1/4 cups Chocolate Syrup, For Drizzling

Beat cake mix, milk, eggs and vegetable oil in a bowl at medium speed until well combined.Grease a 13×9 pan and add cake mix. Bake at 350ºF for 25 minutes. Take cake out and let cool.Once the cake has cooled down a bit, it’s time to ‘poke’ it. Take a straw and insert to make holes all over the cake.For the chocolate pudding, with an electric mixer, blend milk and chocolate pudding mix until completely blended, around 3 minutes. Pour pudding over top of cake then use a spatula to spread evenly while pushing the pudding into the poke marks. Refrigerate to let the pudding set for around 2–3 hours.Just before serving, prepare the frosting. Add vanilla to whipped cream and stir to combine. Spread whipped cream all over the top of the cake. Top with chopped strawberries and chocolate syrup. Enjoy!

Coconut Nutella Fudgsicles
1 can (13 1/2 Oz. Size) Coconut Milk
1/2 cups Nutella

Combine ingredients in a small pot and whisk on low heat until thoroughly combined. Pour into molds, place the tops on and freeze upright for 8 or more hours.When ready to eat, defrost a bit under some warm running tap water until the pops loosen against the molds. Enjoy immediately.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Delicious Raw Vegan Cookies
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
3 Tablespoons Tahini
1/2 cups Oat Flour
1/2 cups Seeds, Nuts, Rolled Oats And/or Desiccated Coconut

Mix maple syrup with coconut oil and tahini.Add dry ingredients little by little and keep mixing until you have a dough-like consistency. You should be able to shape cookies from the mixture. If it feels too dry, add some more nut butter, and if it’s too soft, you can add some oat flour.Shape the cookies and keep them in the fridge. Wait for a few hours or overnight until they have hardened.

Whole Wheat Pecan Date Chai-Tea Ring
FOR THE TEA RING:
250 grams Dates, Chopped Small
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
400 milliliters Freshly Made Strong Chai Tea (I Used 2 Tea Bags And Steeped For 5 Minutes)
2 cups Whole Wheat Flour
3 Tablespoons Cornflour
1 teaspoon Mixed Spice
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1 cup Pecans, Roughly Chopped
3/4 cups Cashews, Roughly Chopped
1/4 cups Honey
2 Tablespoons Melted Coconut Oil Or Olive Oil
2 Eggs, Large, Lightly Beaten
FOR THE DRIZZLE:
2 Tablespoons Greek Yoghurt
1 Tablespoon Honey
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon

For the tea ring: Place the dates in a bowl, sprinkle over the baking soda and pour over the hot tea. Set aside to soak.Preheat oven to 170ºC (340ºF). Grease and lightly flour a 10-inch bundt tin (or two ordinary cake tins).Stir flours, mixed spice, cinnamon, pecans and cashews in a mixing bowl. Using a wooden spoon, mix in honey, coconut oil and eggs.When dates are nice and soft, start to mash them with a fork until they look more like a thick paste; it’s fine if a few small pieces of date remain. Stir the date and tea mixture into the flour mixture until well-combined. It will be very moist.Pour the dough into the bundt tin and bake for 25–30 minutes. It’s done when a toothpick comes out clean. If the top of the tea bread is starting to look too dark whilst it’s in the oven, you can cover it with foil.Once the bread is done, allow it to cool in the tin for about 15 minutes. Turn the bread out onto a cooling rack and allow to cool completely before you pour on the drizzle.For the drizzle: Stir all ingredients together until well combined and smooth. Drizzle over the cool bread and serve.Note: Store this bread in an airtight container in the fridge. It should last for up to 1 week.

Prickly Pear Limeade Popsicles
1/2 cups Fresh Lime Juice, Rinds Reserved
1/2 cups Prickly Pear Simple Syrup
4 cups Water

Add lime juice, rinds, prickly pear simple syrup, and water to a larger pitcher. Store in the fridge for 2 hours.Discard the rinds, and pour liquid into popsicle molds of your choice. Freeze for at least 12 hours before enjoying.Tip: Run popsicle molds under cold water before serving to slide out popsicles.

Sea Salt Toasted Marshmallow Cupcakes
1-3/4 cup All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 cup Sugar
3/4 cups Cocoa Powder
2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Salt
1 cup Buttermilk, Shaken
1/2 cups Vegetable Oil
3 Large Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1 cup Strong Brewed Coffee
FOR THE TOASTED MARSHMALLOW FROSTING:
1/2 bags (10 Oz. Size) Mini Marshmallows, Plus Extra For Decorating
16 Tablespoons Butter, Softened
4 cups Confectioners Sugar
2 teaspoons Vanilla
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Mix flour, sugar, cocoa, baking soda, baking powder, and salt an electric mixer low speed until combined.In a large measuring cup, combine buttermilk, oil, eggs, and vanilla. Slowly pour wet ingredients to the dry ingredients and mix on low until combined.Pour batter into lined cupcakes tins a little more than halfway full (I like pouring the batter into a large measuring cup to help make this step easier). Bake for 15–17 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Let cool in the pan for 5 minutes, then place on a wire rack.Once fully cooled, frost with toasted marshmallow frosting, top with reserved toasted marshmallows and sprinkle with a pinch of sea salt.For the toasted marshmallow frosting: Lay marshmallows in a single layer on a cookie sheet and place in broiler for 2–3 minutes until toasted dark brown. Take out and let cool.Beat butter in an electric mixer. Add confectioners sugar 1 cup at a time. Add vanilla. Fold in toasted marshmallows until combined.

Matcha Custard Coconut Tart
FOR THE COCONUT TART:
3/4 cups Sweetened Shredded Coconut
1 cup Plus 2 Tablespoons, All-purpose Flour
10 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Cut Into Chunks
1/2 cups Powdered Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE MATCHA CUSTARD FILLING:
2 teaspoons Unflavoured Gelatin Powder
4 Tablespoons Water, Divided
2 Tablespoons Matcha Powder
4 Egg Yolks
7 ounces, weight White Chocolate, Melted And Cooled
1 cup Heavy Cream
Fresh Strawberries And Shredded Coconut, For Garnish

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease a 9-inch pie dish with a removable bottom.To prepare crust, toast coconut in oven for a few minutes until lightly brown. Let cool completely.In a food processor, mix coconut, flour, butter, powdered sugar and salt until dough just becomes to form a ball. Firmly press the mixture into the bottom and sides of the pie dish. Freeze for 10 minutes.Bake for 20 minutes. Let cool completely on a wire rack.To prepare matcha mousse, sprinkle gelatin powder in 2 tablespoons water. Let stand for 5 minutes.Mix matcha powder with remaining 2 tablespoons water to form a paste. Mix with the gelatin until smooth.Beat egg yolks until light and creamy, about 5 minutes. Mix in the matcha mixture. Beat in the melted white chocolate until combined.Whip the heavy cream until it becomes stiff. Add cream to the matcha mixture and fold with a spatula until it uniform in texture.Remove cooled pie crust from the pan. Pour the matcha filling in and smooth the top with a spatula. Refrigerate tart until set, about 3 hours, or preferably overnight.Garnish with fresh strawberries and shredded coconut.

Melt-In-Your-Mouth Coconut Chocolate Fudge
50 grams Dark Chocolate (vegan)
2 Tablespoons Coconut Cream
3 Tablespoons Desiccated Coconut, For Decoration (optional)

Melt chocolate. If you melt it in the microwave, stir it every 10–15 seconds because you can burn it.Add coconut cream to the chocolate and mix well. Pour mixture into a small container or molds. Decorate with desiccated coconut and refrigerate for a few hours or overnight.My molds were big, so I cut my bars in half once they had hardened.

Mini Black Sesame Egg Custard Tarts
FOR THE CRUST:
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1/8 teaspoons Salt
1 Tablespoon Sugar
14 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature But Not Softened
2 Tablespoons Cold Water
FOR THE CUSTARD:
1/2 cups Sugar
1 cup Hot Water
3 Large Eggs, At Room Temperature
1/2 cups Evaporated Milk, At Room Temperature
3/4 teaspoons Vanilla
2 teaspoons Black Sesame Paste

Put flour, salt, sugar and butter into food processor. Pulse until butter is broken up into pieces the size of peas. Add cold water and pulse till it forms a dough. Cover and let rest in the refrigerator for 20 minutes.Once chilled, turn the dough out onto a floured surface, knead a bit, then roll out into a rectangle about 8×20 inches. Fold the top half of the dough to the center then fold the bottom half so that both ends are meeting in the middle, Fold the dough over again like a book. It will look like a long rectangle. Turn it 90 degrees, then roll the dough out again. This time roll it out to 3x the length. Make the same folds are before, wrap and chill in the refrigerator for 30 minutes.To make the custard, start by making the simple syrup. Dissolve sugar into the hot water and let it cool to room temperature. Whisk eggs, evaporated milk and vanilla together. Slowly whisk in the cooled simple syrup and black sesame paste. You’ll see flecks of sesame in your custard,Preheat the oven to 400ºF. Once the dough has chilled the second time, roll it out on a floured board to about 1/4 inch thick—too thin and it’ll break apart when you try to take them out after they’re baked. Cut 4-inch rounds. Place into the mini muffin tin. Push down to create the well and push the dough up the sides of the tin to make sure the crust doesn’t shrink while baking. Pour the custard into each well, filling it about halfway—too much and they’ll overflow in the oven, making it hard to pop out of the tins when they’re done.Carefully place the tins in the oven and bake for 9 minutes. Then turn down the oven temperature to 350ºF and bake for another 10–13 minutes until the custard is set. Let cool in the tins for about 5–10 minutes to make them easier to pop out. Enjoy warm!

Banana Chocolate Chip Cookies
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1/4 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
3/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
2/3 cups Granulated Sugar
1/3 cups Packed Light Brown Sugar
1 whole Large Egg
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract (use 2 Teaspoons If Not Using Caramel Extract)
1 teaspoon Caramel Extract (optional)
1 teaspoon Banana Extract
1/2 cups Thoroughly Mashed Or Puréed Ripe Banana (about 1 Medium)
1 cup Old-fshioned Oats
1 cup Dry Roasted Peanuts, Chopped
1 cup Milk Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line baking sheets with parchment paper or spray them with nonstick cooking spray. Set the pans aside.In a medium bowl, whisk flour, nutmeg, cinnamon, baking soda and salt. Set aside.In a large mixing bowl, cream butter, granulated sugar and brown sugar on medium speed of an electric mixer until fluffy. Add egg, vanilla, caramel extract (if using), banana extract and mashed banana. Beat until everything is combined.Add flour mixture and beat just until incorporated. Do not overmix.Place the oats in a food processor and pulse until they’re finely chopped—don’t pulverize them into a powder. Fold the oats, chopped peanuts and chocolate into the cookie dough until combined.Drop the dough onto the prepared pans with a 1 to 1 1/2 tablespoon size cookie scoop, spacing the dough about 2 1/2 inches apart.Bake the cookies at 350ºF for 12–14 minutes for 1-tablespoon size cookies, 14–16 minutes for 1 1/2 tablespoon size, or until cookies are lightly browned and almost firm in the center. Let the cookies cool on the pans for about 5 minutes before removing them to wire racks to cool completely.Makes 30–36 cookies, depending on the size.Recipe adapted from Cuisine Weeknight Menus.

Classic Coconut Cream Pie
FOR THE GRAHAM CRACKER CRUST:
8 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
2 cups Graham Cracker Crumbs
1/3 cups Granulated Sugar
1/8 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE COCONUT CREAM PIE:
7 ounces, fluid Sweetened Shredded Coconut, Toasted And Divided
5 Egg Yolks, At Room Temperature
13-1/2 ounces, fluid Canned Coconut Milk
1 cup Whole Milk
1/2 cups Heavy Cream
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Packed Light Brown Sugar
1/3 cups Cornstarch
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE WHIPPED CREAM TOPPING:
2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
3 Tablespoons Confectioners Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Vanilla Extract

Preheat oven to 350ºF.For the crust, melt butter in a small saucepan. In a medium-sized bowl, combine melted butter, graham cracker crumbs, granulated sugar, and salt. Press mixture into a lightly greased 9-inch pie pan, evenly spreading the crumbs across the bottom and up the sides. Bake in preheated oven for 10 minutes. Place crust on a cooling rack to cool completely.Reduce oven temperature to 325ºF.For the coconut cream pie, spread shredded coconut onto a large baking sheet in a thin layer. Bake in preheated oven for 8 to 10 minutes, or until lightly toasted and golden, stirring a few times to ensure even color. Remove from oven and set aside to cool.In a large saucepan, combine egg yolks, coconut milk, whole milk, heavy cream, granulated sugar, brown sugar, cornstarch, and salt. Whisk well to combine. Bring mixture to a light boil over medium heat, whisking constantly. Once mixture reaches a boil, reduce heat to medium-low and, whisking constantly, and cook another 2 minutes. Remove mixture from heat. Whisk in vanilla extract and 1 cup of the toasted coconut. Pour into the crust at immediately.Smooth the top, then cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 4 hours, or until cold and set.For the whipped cream topping, in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, or in a large bowl using a handheld mixer, beat cream until it begins to thicken and hold soft peaks. Add confectioners’ sugar and vanilla and continue to beat for another minute. Spread the whipped cream over the cooled pie. Sprinkle the top with remaining toasted coconut.Cake will keep in the fridge for up to 3 days.

Chocolate Peanut Butter Avocado Pudding
1-1/2 whole Ripe Avocados
1 whole Large Ripe Banana, Peeled And Cut Into Small Chunks
1/2 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1/2 cups Creamy Peanut Butter
1/2 cups Maple Syrup (can Substitute Agave Nectar Or Honey)
1/4 cups Milk
1/2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract

Scoop avocado and banana chunks into the bowl of a food processor fitted with a steel blade. Pulse to combine. Add cocoa powder, peanut butter, maple syrup, milk and vanilla. Process the mixture until smooth and creamy. Taste and adjust the sweetness to your taste.Transfer pudding to a bowl or individual serving dishes, cover and refrigerate a few hours or overnight.Serve with a dollop of whipped cream or whipped topping, if desired.Note: This mixture can also be put into popsicle molds and frozen for homemade “fudgesicles”.Slightly adapted from my friend Linda at The Best of Long Island and Central Florida.

Strawberry Chia Oatmeal Cookies (Vegan)
1/3 cups Unsweetened Applesauce
1 cup Frozen Or Fresh Strawberries
1 cup Unsweetened Vanilla Almond Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Powder (or 1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract)
1 cup Whole Grain Oats (quick Cook Or Old-fashioned)
1/4 cups Coconut Flour
1 Tablespoon Ground Flax Seeds
2 Tablespoons Chia Seeds
1/4 cups Oat Bran
Ground Cinnamon, To Taste (optional)
3 drops Liquid Stevia Extract

Add applesauce, strawberries, non-dairy milk, and vanilla to a blender. Purée until thoroughly blended, (about 5–10 seconds), then set aside.Grab a large bowl and add oats, coconut flour (or almond meal), flax, chia seeds, oat bran, and maybe a little cinnamon if you’d like, too. Stir well for 30 seconds or so to fully incorporate everything together.Add the blended mixture into the large bowl of dry ingredients, and stir everything together with a spatula until you get a thick dough. Let this sit for 10 minutes to thicken up properly.Preheat oven to 350ºF while you wait on the dough to thicken up. Line a cookie sheet or pan with parchment paper, or you can use a Silpat baking sheet.When the cookie mixture has set for 10 minutes, divide the cookie mixture onto the pan into 2-inch circles. (I like to use a spoon to scoop the dough and shape it with my hands. It doesn’t have to be perfect, but be sure the dough is evenly spread out and shaped like circles as best as possible.) If you’d like to add some nuts for a topping, place 1 or 2 of your favorite nuts in the center of each cookie.Bake the cookies for 20 minutes at 350ºF. Remove the pan from the oven, set it on the counter, and let the cookies cool on the pan for 10 minutes before removing them.Serve or store for future enjoyment. These keep wonderfully in the fridge for a week or are also very freezer-friendly! I like to store them in the freezer in a large resealable container and separate the layers with wax paper so they don’t freeze together.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Delicious Cakey Coconut Brownies (Flourless)
12 whole Dates
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
2 whole Eggs
1/4 cups Cocoa Powder
4 Tablespoons Tahini
1/2 cups Desiccated Coconut
4 Tablespoons Flax Meal
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda

Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F).Soak dates in warm water for about 1/2 hour or until they are soft enough to mash them with a fork. I like adding the coconut oil to the dates and keep mashing until I have a smooth paste.Whisk eggs with cocoa powder. Add date paste and tahini and mix again.Lastly, add desiccated coconut, flax meal and baking soda. Mix everything thoroughly.Grease brownie pan or cover it with baking paper. Pour in the mixture bake for 18–20 minutes. Check for doneness with a toothpick.Let the brownie cake cool down, cut and enjoy!

Cereal and Milk Cream Puffs
FOR THE TOPPING:
2 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
1/3 cups Powdered Sugar
1/2 cups Crushed Capt'n Crunch Cereal
1/3 cups All-purpose Flour
FOR THE CEREAL WHIPPED CREAM:
3 cups Heavy Cream
2 cups Fruit Flavored Cereal (I Used Fruity Pebbles)
1 Tablespoon Sugar
FOR THE PASTRY:
8 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
1 pinch Salt
1 cup Water
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
5 Large Eggs

For the topping: Melt butter in a small saucepan. Stir in sugar, crushed cereal and flour. Set aside .For the cereal whipped cream: Pour heavy cream into a large bowl. Add the fruit flavored cereal and mix. Let steep for 1 to 1 1/2 hours in the refrigerator.Strain the cereal out, making sure to press down on the strainer to get any cream that the cereal had absorbed. (That’s the good stuff!) Pour strained cream into an electric mixer. Add sugar and whip until you have stiffl peaks. Set aside in the refrigerator.For the pastry: Preheat oven to 410ºF.Melt butter with salt and water in a large saucepan over high heat. When butter is melted and starts to boil, remove from heat. Immediately add flour all at once, and beat into a dough with wooden spoon.Put dough into an electric mixer. Beat in the eggs one at a time, making sure it’s fully incorporated before adding the next egg. The dough will be very sticky. It’s ok, it’s supposed to be sticky!Spoon dough into a piping bag and pipe concentric circles onto paper-lined tray. Using your fingers, pat down any tips to prevent them from burning. Top with a small handful of the previously made cereal topping.Immediately bake 25 minutes until well puffed and browned, then lower the oven temperature to 210ºF and continue to bake for 40 minutes to dry.Once puffs have cooled, cut each puff in half and pipe in whipped cream filling.

No-Bake S’mores Bars
9 pieces Honey Graham Crackers
2 Tablespoons Butter, Melted
2 cups Mini Marshmallows
9 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate (chocolate Of Choice)

Place all the crackers in a large resealable bag and smash them into fine crumbs using a heavy object (roller, serving spoon, or such). It helps to place the bag on a layered hand towel to absorb the impact. Take 1 tablespoon of the cracker crumbs out and set aside.Transfer crackers to a medium bowl, add butter and mix until uniform. Pour onto a 9×5 loaf pan with fitted parchment paper on all sides (see picture). Press cracker mixture down as hard as you can using the back of a spoon. Then place it in the freezer for the duration of the next step.Note: This step will require quick actions, so be sure to read the instructions first!Pour the marshmallows in a medium bowl and microwave for about 30 seconds. Because microwave power varies a lot, it’s best that you watch the marshmallows “melt”. The key is to stop the microwave when the marshmallows start to puff-up like a balloon. Again, this will only take a few seconds (30 seconds for me!). Remove from microwave and quickly stir with a spatula. Quickly pour melted marshmallow over the cracker layer and start spreading right away. If the marshmallow becomes too hard to spread, simply spray the marshmallow layer with cooking spray and using the back of a clean spoon continue to spread until the marshmallow layer has coved the entire pan. Set aside.Break the chocolate into small pieces and microwave for 45 seconds, remove and stir with a spatula. If needed add more time until the chocolate has melted. Pour melted chocolate over the marshmallow layer evenly. Sprinkle with reserved cracker crumbs and place it in the freezer for 15–20 minutes (waiting is the hardest part!).Remove from freezer. Carefully lift parchment paper along with frozen s’mores. Place it on top of a cutting board. Using a large sharp knife, cut the s’mores into full-sized bars.The marshmallow will slightly expend at room temperature and become softer, which is perfect to bite into. Serve cold and store remaining s’more bars in the refrigerator.

Soft Chocolate Cookies
200 grams Dark Chocolate
100 grams Butter
2 Eggs
150 grams White Sugar
1 teaspoon Rum
200 grams Flour
1 pinch Salt
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
2 Tablespoons Cocoa Powder

Melt chocolate and butter in a bain-marie or double boiler (or a bowl set over a pan with simmering water, being careful not to let the water touch the base of the bowl). Set aside.Mix eggs, sugar and rum. Add melted chocolate.In a separate bowl, blend flour with salt, baking powder and cocoa. Gradually stir in the chocolate mixture.Preheat oven to 150ºC (300ºF) and line a baking tray with parchment paper. With a teaspoon, shape small dough balls, leaving 4 inches space between the cookies. Bake for about 10 minutes.

Spiced Coconut Macaroons
3 cups Shredded Coconut
2 whole Egg Whites
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Coconut Extract
1/2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg

Combine coconut, egg whites, granulated sugar, coconut extract, ground ginger, cinnamon and nutmeg in a large bowl. Stir it all together thoroughly into a uniform mixture. Put the bowl in the refrigerator to let the mixture chill for at least 1 hour.When the hour is up, preheat oven to 325ºF and line two sheet trays with silicone mats or parchment paper. Use a 1 1/2 inch cookie scoop to scoop perfect little mounds of the dough onto the prepared trays, spacing them out about an inch apart. A dozen should fit on each tray.Bake for 15–20 minutes, until coconut starts to brown around the edges. The cookies should be springy to the touch but not mushy. Let them cool completely, then enjoy! They will also keep for days in an airtight container.

Homemade Pineapple Upside Down Cupcakes
FOR THE TOPPING:
1/4 cups Melted Butter
1/4 cups Brown Sugar
1 can (20 Oz. Size) Pineapple Tidbits, Drained And Some Juice Reserved For Cupcakes
FOR THE CUPCAKES:
1/4 cups Butter
2/3 cups Sugar
1 Large Egg
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Pumpkin Spice
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 Tablespoon Vanilla
1/2 cups Pineapple Juice, Reserved From Caned Pineapple Bits
Maraschino Cherries, To Garnish

Heat oven to 360°F. Divide melted butter between 12 muffin cups. Sprinkle about 1 teaspoon brown sugar in each cup and then divide the drained pineapple tidbits on top.For the cupcakes, blend butter and sugar in a medium bowl with a hand mixer until soft. Add egg and blend until light and fluffy. Add remaining cake ingredients and reserved pineapple juice. Mix until well combined.Divide batter between prepared muffin cups and bake for 25–30 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted comes out clean.Cool in the pan for 5 minutes, then invert on a rack and cool completely. Garnish with maraschino cherries.

4-Ingredient Flourless Paleo Banana Cookies
2 whole Egg Yolks
1/2 whole Ripe Banana
3 Tablespoons Tahini
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 cups Dried Fruit, Nuts, Or Chocolate Chips (optional)

Preheat oven to 170°C (325°F).Beat egg yolks and mash the banana. Mix them together. Add tahini and baking powder and mix everything well. If desired, add chocolate chips, chopped nuts or dried fruit and mix again.Pour spoonfuls of the mixture onto a baking tray covered with baking paper. Leave enough space between them, because they spread a lot.Bake for 8–10 minutes and keep an eye on them, making sure they don’t over-bake. Let cool and enjoy!

Tarte Tatin
FOR THE CRUST:
100 grams Butter, Cold
100 grams White Flour
1 Egg Yolk
FOR THE APPLES:
9 Apples
120 grams White Sugar
50 milliliters Water
100 grams Butter, Cold
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE CARAMEL:
1 cup Sugar

Make a classic tart crust. Blend cold butter with the flour. Add egg yolk and knead very briefly, only a few minutes. Cover in plastic and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes.Peel and slice the apples. Prepare a syrup using the sugar, water, butter, and vanilla. Cook apples in syrup for 10–15 minutes, until soft.For the caramel, melt sugar in the tray until amber-colored and fluid. Carefully swirl it so it covers the tray’s base and walls. Let cool for a few minutes. Add cooked apples.Roll cold dough into a thin sheet. Poke some holes with on the dough with a fork before draping it over the apple layer.Bake at 180ºC (355ºF) for about 30 minutes. As soon as it’s done, very carefully turn it upside down on a flat surface. Let it rest for 5–10 minutes, then slice and enjoy!

Healthy Crispy Rice Treats
1/2 cups Honey
1/2 cups Peanut Butter
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt
4 cups Rice Cereal

Line a 9×9 baking pan with parchment paper.Heat honey, peanut butter, vanilla and salt in a pan over low heat until it all melts together. Pour rice cereal into a large bowl and pour the melted honey and peanut butter over it. Stir together.Press firmly into the baking pan using either a rubber spatula or your hand with wax or parchment paper. Let cool and cut into squares.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Zesty Orange Honey Layer Cake
1-1/2 cup Butter, Softened
3/4 cups Sugar
3 Eggs
2 cups Cake Flour
3 teaspoons Baking Powder
50 milliliters Milk
1 Large Orange, Zest And Juice
1 Tablespoon Honey
500 milliliters Fresh Cream
250 grams Strawberries
1/3 cups Chopped Almonds (optional)

Preheat oven to 170ºC (340ºF). Grease and lightly flour two 8-inch (20cm) round cake tins.Cream butter and sugar until creamy and pale. Add eggs one at a time and beat until incorporated. Slowly add flour mixed with baking powder, a few tablespoons at a time, and beat until incorporated.Add milk and orange juice alternatingly, a little at a time. Stir in orange zest and honey.Divide cake batter evenly between the two cake tins and bake for about 30 minutes. They’re done when you press down gently on the cake and it springs back. Switch the oven off and leave the oven door ajar with the cakes inside for another 10 minutes to cool slowly. (This prevents them from sinking in the middle!)Remove cakes from the oven and allow to cool for 15 minutes before turning out onto cooling racks to cool completely.Beat cream until stiff peaks form. Slice strawberries in half or into rounds, or however you like. Place one cake on a serving dish or cake stand and top with half the whipped cream, sprinkle with half the chopped almonds. Place the remaining cake on top and spoon on the remaining cream, top with the strawberries, chopped almonds and drizzle with honey.

Slow Cooker Peach Cobbler
4 cups Fresh Or Frozen Peaches, Peeled And Sliced
1/4 cups Light Brown Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1-1/2 cup Bisquick Mix
1/4 cups Light Brown Sugar
1/4 cups White Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Nutmeg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Milk, Any Kind (I Used 2%)

Spray a 6-quart slow cooker with cooking spray or line with a slow cooker liner. Set aside.In a medium bowl, combine peaches, brown sugar, and cinnamon. Toss to coat. Spread peaches onto bottom of slow cooker.In another medium bowl, combine Bisquick mix, brown sugar, white sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, vanilla, and milk. Stir thoroughly to remove lumps. Spread mixture evenly over peaches.Line the edges of the top of the slow cooker with paper towels so that condensation doesn’t leak into the cobbler. Cover and cook on low for 3–4 hours, or until center is set.Serve with vanilla ice cream, if desired. Enjoy!

Mini S’mores Brownies
FOR THE BROWNIES:
6 Mini Ready Graham Cracker Crusts (I Used Keebler)
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
3/4 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 Egg
1/4 cups Plus 2 Tablespoons, All-purpose Flour
1/4 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
Pinch Of Kosher Salt (sea Or Table Salt Is Fine Too!)
1 teaspoon Coffee Granules Or Espresso Powder (optional)
1 bar (4.4 Oz. Size) Milk Chocolate, Chopped Into Small Pieces
FOR THE MERINGUE:
3 Egg Whites
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar

Preheat oven to 325°F and place mini crusts on a baking sheet.In a medium bowl, whisk melted butter, sugar, and vanilla. Add egg and whisk to combine.In a small bowl (I actually used a cereal bowl!), whisk flour, cocoa powder, salt, and coffee granules if using. Gradually add to wet ingredients, whisking (or stirring) briefly after each addition until just combined. Using a rubber spatula, stir in chopped chocolate.Divide batter evenly between crusts and bake for 20–25 minutes, or until a toothpick/tester comes out with moist crumbs attached.Transfer brownies to a cooling rack and let cool completely. Once brownies are cool, make meringue.For the meringue: In the bowl of a stand mixer, whisk egg whites and sugar.Place bowl over a pan of simmering water (make sure bowl does not touch water) and whisk until mixture reaches a temperature of 160°F, or until sugar is completely dissolved and egg whites are warm to the touch, about 3–5 minutes.Transfer bowl to stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment and whisk on high speed until stiff peaks form and mixture is thick, glossy, and marshmallow-like in texture, about 5 minutes.Add meringue by placing mounds on each brownie and swirling around with a spoon. Using a kitchen torch, brown/toast the meringue. Alternatively, you can place under the broiler for about 30 seconds, until browned.Serve immediately (recommended!) or place in fridge and bring out 30 minutes to 1 hour before serving to allow the brownies to come to room temperature. Enjoy!See related blog post for additional notes and tips!

Gran’s Original Golden Tea Time Crunchies
3/4 cups Butter
1 Tablespoon Golden Syrup
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 cup Flour
2 cups Rolled Oats
1 cup Desiccated Coconut
1/2 cups Sugar

Melt butter and syrup in a small saucepan. Stir in baking soda and set aside.Mix flour, rolled oats, coconut and sugar together in a large mixing bowl and then mix in the butter mixture. Press into a deep oblong pan. You want them about 1cm thick. If your pan is too big, don’t worry—just finish off the edge neatly by pushing the mixture into a straight line (and leave an empty bit of pan). They won’t change shape much.Bake at 170ºC (340ºF) for about 25 minutes. They’re done when they are golden brown and you can really smell the oats cooking. They’ll be soft when you take them out of the oven, but they’ll crisp up as they cool.Allow to cool in the baking tray and then cut into squares.Note: Cut them when they are still ever so slightly warm to the touch, and then leave to cool completely before you take them out of the pan.

Fresh Peach Cake
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1-3/4 cup White Sugar
3 Eggs
1 cup Vegetable Oil (or 3/4 Cup Of Peach Or Plain Yogurt)
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Salt
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
2 cups Diced, Fresh Peaches
FOR THE STREUSEL TOPPING:
2 Tablespoons All-purpose Flour
1/4 cups White Sugar
1-1/2 teaspoon Cinnamon
4 teaspoons Vegetable Oil

Preheat oven to 375ºF. Lightly grease a 9-inch round cake pan with nonstick cooking spray. Set aside.In a large bowl, combine flour, sugar, eggs, vegetable oil, baking soda, salt, and cinnamon.Using an electric hand mixer or whisk, mix until thoroughly combined. Fold in peaches.Spread batter in prepared cake pan.To make the streusel topping, whisk flour, cinnamon, and sugar in a small bowl. Add oil and mix until fully combined and resembles a coarse mixture. Sprinkle over top of cake batter.Bake for 45–50 minutes, or until cake is golden brown and toothpick inserted into batter comes out clean. Remove from oven and let cool in pan for 10 minutes, then place onto wire rack to cool completely. Enjoy!

Green Tea Latte Cupcakes
FOR THE CUPCAKES:
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 cup Sugar
3 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Salt
1 cup Milk
2 Eggs
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Vegetable Or Canola Oil
3-1/2 teaspoons Green Tea Powder
1 cup Water
FOR THE MILK MIXTURE:
1/4 cups Condensed Milk
1/2 cups Evaporated Milk
1/2 cups Whole Milk
FOR THE FROSTING:
1-1/2 cup Heavy Cream
1 Tablespoon Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
8 ounces, weight Mascarpone Cheese
Green Tea Powder, For Dusting

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line cupcake tins.Combine flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a large mixing bowl. Set aside.Combine milk, eggs, vanilla, and oil in a bowl. Add wet ingredients into the dry. Mix until combined. Add green tea powder and mix to combine.Slowly pour water in the batter. Be careful as it might splatter. The batter will be very liquid, but don’t worry, it’s supposed to be.Pour batter into lined cupcake tins. I like to pour it into a large measuring cup with a spout first to help make this step a bit neater.Bake 15–17 minutes. Remove from oven and let cool.Once cakes have cooled, cut a hole into each cupcake. I used a piping bag tip to do this. Set aside.Prepare the milk mixture. Mix all three kinds of milks with a whisk. Slowly pour mixture into each cupcake hole.Make the frosting by whipping the heavy cream with powdered sugar and vanilla. Once it reaches soft peaks, add mascarpone cheese. Whip until it reaches stiff peaks.Pipe frosting onto the cupcakes using a star tip. Dust with additional green tea powder and enjoy!Keep leftovers in the fridge.

Chocolate Chip Cookies
1 cup Castor Sugar
150 grams Butter
250 milliliters Cream
2 whole Eggs
3 cups Plain Flour
3 Tablespoons Custard Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1-1/2 cup Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 180ºC (355ºF).Combine sugar and butter. Add cream and eggs and mix through. Add flour, custard powder, and baking powder. The mix will be quite thick at this point, and I found kneading it with clean hands to mix ingredients worked a lot easier.Add chocolate chips and knead to mix. Place balls of cookie dough on a baking tray lined with baking paper. Push down with hand.Cook until golden brown, about 20 minutes.

Rhubarb and Blueberry Streusel
1 pint Blueberries, Washed And Cleaned, Strained
2 cups Rhubarb, Cut Into Roughly 1/3-inch-thick Pieces, Exterior Skin Removed
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice
1 cup Light Brown Sugar, Divided, Plus More For Sprinkling
2-3/4 cups All-purpose Flour, Divided
12 Tablespoons Cold Unsalted Butter
2 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 whole Egg
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

Preheat oven to 350°F. Line with parchment paper and spray with cooking spray. This helps with removal and slicing when it is done cooking.Combine blueberries, sliced rhubarb, lemon juice, and 1/4 cup sugar in a large bowl. Set aside to macerate while you make the crust and streusel.Place 2 1/2 cups of the flour into a food processor. Cut butter into large chunks and add to the flour along with cream cheese, salt, and remaining 3/4 cup light brown sugar. Pulse to combine the mixture until moist and crumbly, with no chunks of butter remaining.Remove about 1 2/3 cups of this crumbly mixture from the food processor and set aside for the streusel topping.To the rest of the mixture still in the food processor, add remaining 1/4 cup of flour, whole egg, baking powder, and vanilla. Blend until it just starts to come together to form a dough. This should only take a minute or two.Press the dough evenly into the lined pan (it’s easier to do this if your hands are slightly damp). Bake for 10–15 minutes. I use a glass 8×12 pan a few inches deep.Strain the macerated fruit to remove the excess liquid. Spread the fruit in an even layer over the surface of the partially baked crust. Sprinkle the reserved streusel topping over the surface of the fruit and then sprinkle on a little more light brown sugar. Bake again for 40 to 50 minutes until the topping is golden-brown.Let the pan cool for 20 minutes before lifting out of the pan using the parchment paper. Let the streusel cool, then slice into squares.

Boozy Limonata Peach-Basil Popsicles
FOR THE BASIL SIMPLE SYRUP:
1/4 cups Water
1/4 cups Sugar
8 Basil Leaves
FOR THE POPSICLES:
2 cups Fresh Or Defrosted Peaches
1/4 cups Basil Simple Syrup
1 cup Bravazzi Limonata Hard Italian Soda

To make the simple syrup, combine all of the ingredients over medium-high heat in a small saucepan. Bring to a simmer and cook, stirring frequently, until the sugar is completely dissolved, about 2–3 minutes. Remove the saucepan from the heat and allow the simple syrup to cool to room temperature. Once cooled, the simple syrup can be used.To make the popsicles, add ingredients to your blender. Blend on high until smooth. Pour mixture into popsicle molds and insert your popsicle sticks. Transfer the molds to your freezer and allow them to freeze for about 6 hours.Remove the popsicles from their molds before serving. You can run a little warm water over the molds to help loosen the popsicles from their molds if needed.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Lemon Curd Dip
1/2 cups Sour Cream
1/2 cups Lemon Curd
2 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar

In a bowl, combine all ingredients until smooth. Serve with fruit of your choice, pretzels or crackers.

Chocolate Nutella Cream Pie
2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
3 Tablespoons White Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened
3/4 cups Powdered Sugar
2/3 cups Nutella
1 whole 9-inch Chocolate Cookie Pie Crust
Grated Chocolate For Garish, If Desired

In a large bowl, us an electric hand mixer or stand mixer with fitted whisk attachment to beat whipping cream until it begins to thicken. Add sugar and vanilla; beat until stiff peaks form. Set aside.In a medium bowl, beat cream cheese, powdered sugar, and Nutella until combined and smooth. Fold in half of the whipped cream. Spread into prepared pie crust.Spoon remaining whipped cream on top and spread. Garnish with grated chocolate, if desired. Refrigerate for at least 1 hour before serving.Enjoy!

Strawberry Rhubarb Crisp
FOR THE FILLING:
5 stalks Rhubarb, Sliced Into 1 Inch Pieces
1 pound Fresh Strawberries, Hulled And Halved
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1 whole Lemon, Zested
1 Tablespoon Cornstarch
1/2 cups Fresh Lemon Juice
FOR THE TOPPING:
1 cup Old Fashioned Oats
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1 cup Dark Brown Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla
1 pinch Salt
1-1/2 stick Cold Butter, Diced
Ice Cream, For Topping

Preheat oven to 350ºF and prepare a deep 9 x 13 baking dish.Combine rhubarb, strawberries, sugar and lemon zest in a large bowl. Stir. In another small bowl, dissolve corn starch in lemon juice, stirring it well. Pour that thick liquid into the big bowl with the rest of the filling and stir it all together thoroughly. Set the bowl aside.Using a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine all the topping ingredients in the bowl and turn the mixer on low. Mix everything together until moist and pebbly from the butter.Pour the fruit mixture into the pan in an even layer. Then sprinkle the topping evenly on top. Bake the strawberry rhubarb crisp for 1 hour, until the fruit mixture is really bubbly and thick and the topping is sightly brown. Let it cool for about 10 minutes, then serve it warm with ice cream on top! This also keeps well for a day or two and can be re-heated.

Matcha Coconut Macaroons
FOR THE MATCHA COCONUT MACAROONS:
2 whole Egg Whites
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 teaspoon Matcha Powder
2 cups Unsweetened Coconut
1/2 cups Sweetened Coconut
1/2 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE MATCHA GLAZE:
2 Tablespoons Milk
1 cup Powdered Sugar
1 Tablespoon Matcha Powder

Preheat oven to 325ºF. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.In a large bowl, whisk egg whites, sugar, vanilla and matcha powder until well combined and fluffy. Fold in coconut (unsweetened and sweetened) and salt.With wet hands, shape coconut mixture into small balls, about 1 tablespoon-sized. Pplace them on the prepare baking sheets, spacing an inch apart. Bake for 16 to 18 minutes until golden. Let cool slightly before transferring to wire rack to cool completely.To prepare the matcha glaze, whisk all ingredients slowly until slightly thickened and completely smooth. Spoon about a teaspoon of glaze on top of each macaroon. Decorate with sprinkles if preferred.

Raw Vegan Chocolate Hemp Protein Bars
1-1/2 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate (Dairy-free And Vegan)
3 Tablespoons Tahini
3 Tablespoons Hemp Protein Powder
1/2 cups Seeds Or Oat Flour
1/4 cups Dried Fruit, Minced Finely (optional)

Melt the chocolate and mix it with tahini. Add protein powder and whisk well. Finally, add the seeds (or oat flour) and dried fruit and mix everything together.Put in molds and refrigerate overnight.

Chocolate Peanut Butter Crunchies
3/4 cups Butter
2 Tablespoons Peanut Butter (Sugar-free And Salt-free)
1-1/2 Tablespoon Syrup
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Vanilla Essence
2 teaspoons Instant Coffee Powder
1/2 cups Plain Flour
2-1/2 Tablespoons Cocoa Powder
2 cups Rolled Oats
1 cup Desiccated Coconut
3/4 cups Brown Sugar
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon

Preheat oven to 170ºC (340ºF).Melt butter, peanut butter and syrup in a small saucepan. Stir in baking soda, then the vanilla essence and coffee and set aside.Mix dry ingredients together in a large mixing bowl and then stir in the butter mixture until well combined.Press into an oblong baking pan. You want them about 1cm thick—if your pan is too big, don’t worry, just finish off the edge neatly by pushing the mixture into a straight line (and leave an empty bit of pan). They won’t change shape much.Bake for about 15–20 minutes. They’ll be soft when you take them out of the oven but they’ll crisp up on the outside as they cool.Cut them into squares when they are still ever so slightly warm to the touch, then take them out of the pan and allow to cool completely on a cooling rack.

Bananas Foster Nice Cream
3 Frozen Ripe Bananas
1/4 cups Milk (regular, Almond, Coconut, Etc.)
1/3 cups Caramel
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
1 pinch Salt

In a blender or food processor, add all ingredients and blend until smooth. Pour mixture into a 9×5 inch baking pan and freeze until frozen (about 1 hour).Remove for freezer and scoop up for deliciousness! Add toppings if desired.

Fresh Orange Popsicles
10 Oranges

Zest 2 of the oranges. Set orange zest aside.Peel all of the oranges and fill a high speed blender to the max fill line with the fruit. Add the zest and blend on low at first, then increase speed to high and blend for a couple of minutes until frothy and you can’t see little flecks of zest anymore.Pour into popsicle molds and freeze 3 to 4 hours or until solid.

Blackberry and Lemon Mason Jar Lid Pies
8 3-Inch Diameter Mason Jar Lids
FOR THE PIE FILLING:
3 containers (6 Oz. Size) Fresh Blackberries (Some Will Be Left Over)
6 Tablespoons Sugar
2 Tablespoons Flour
2 Tablespoons Fresh Lemon Juice
FOR THE DOUGH:
2 Tablespoons Flour, For Your Work Surface
2 whole (9-inch Round Size) Premade Pie Dough
1/4 cups Plus 4 Teaspoons Lemon Curd (2 Teaspoons Per Pie)
2 Tablespoons Water, To Seal The Dough
FOR THE EGG WASH:
1 Egg
1 Tablespoon Water
1/3 cups White Sanding Sugar (Or Another Sugar With Large Crystals), For Sprinkling On Dough

Preheat oven to 375ºF. Clean the top and bottom of each Mason jar lid. Turn the inside of each lid over so that the metal part inside of the rim is facing up (instead of the side with the rubber seal on it). This way, the pie dough will come in contact with the metal side of the lid rather than the side with the rubber on it. Set the lids aside.In a medium size bowl, add blackberries, sugar, flour and lemon juice. Gently stir together. Set aside.Sprinkle flour on the dough rolling surface and lay out one of the rounds of dough. The dough for the crust (top and bottom) needs to be cut 1-inch larger in diameter than the size of the Mason jar lid. If using 3-inch diameter Mason jar lids, the small dough rounds (pie crusts) need to be 4 inches in diameter. To cut the pie crusts, use a glass (with thin edges) that is 4 inches in diameter or use a Mason jar lid as a guide and cut the round 1-inch larger in diameter with a knife. Each large round of dough should yield 8 pie crusts (small rounds); 2 of the small rounds will need to be made from the scraps after cutting 6 small rounds.Lay a small round of dough in a Mason jar lid. With your fingers, gently push the dough evenly inside of the lid. Spoon the berry mixture (not the juice) in the pie shell with a slotted spoon—if using a regular spoon, drain the juice back into the bowl (when the berries are in the spoon, lean the spoon on the inside of the bowl to drain the juice). Top the berries with lemon curd. Be careful not to fill the pie shell too full. Leave enough room for the top crust to cover the berries and overlap the bottom crust.Dip your finger in water and run it around the inside edge of the bottom pie crust. Top the pie with a small round of dough and pinch the edges of the top and bottom crusts together so that they are tightly sealed. Roll the edges of the pie and tuck them into the top of the lid. Repeat the process with the remaining pies.For the egg wash, in a small bowl, add egg and water. Whisk together. Brush egg wash on top of the pies. Sprinkle sugar crystals on top of the pies. Cut slits on top of the pies so that steam can escape.Line a shallow baking pan or cookie sheet (with sides) with parchment paper. Put the pies on the pan leaving some space in between each pie. Bake in a preheated oven until the pie crusts turn a golden brown, about 35–40 minutes. Juice from the pies may bubble outside of the pies on to the parchment paper. Let the pies cool until the lids are cool enough to handle.Carefully push the bottoms of the lids up and out of the rim section. Then carefully remove the bottom parts of the lids from the pies. Serve as soon as the pies are removed from the lids so they’re still warm.

4-Ingredient Banana Peanut Butter Chocolate Chip Cookies
1 whole Banana
4 Tablespoons Peanut Butter
1 cup Oat Flour
1/3 cups Chopped Chocolate

Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F).Mash banana and mix it with peanut butter. Add oats and mix again. Add chopped chocolate or some chocolate chips, and mix one more time.Put parchment paper on your baking tray. Carefully scoop spoonfuls of the mixture onto the tray and flatten them a bit. Bake for about 15 minutes.

Golden Apple Bars
FOR THE COOKIE LAYER:
3/4 cups Butter
3/4 cups Brown Sugar
2 cups Flour
FOR THE APPLE LAYER:
8 whole Tart Apples (your Choice), Peeled And Diced
1 teaspoon Lemon Juice
1/4 cups Butter
3/4 cups Brown Sugar
1 whole Egg, Lightly Beaten
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 cup Flour

Heat oven to 350ºF.For the cookie layer: In a large bowl, cream butter and brown sugar. Beat in flour.Grease a 9 x 13 baking pan. Press dough evenly over bottom and 1 inch up the sides of the pan. Bake in preheated oven for 12 minutes, or until lightly browned. Remove from oven.For the apple layer: Core, peel and dice apples; toss with lemon juice in a large bowl.Melt butter and remove from heat. Blend with brown sugar in a medium-sized bowl. Add egg, vanilla, baking powder and flour. Mix well. Combine in large bowl with diced apples. Mix well.Spread evenly over the cookie layer and bake for an additional 25 minutes or until apples are fork tender. Remove from oven, cool and cut.

Magic Bars
16 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, melted
3 cups Graham Cracker Crumbs
2 cups Semisweet Chocolate Chips
2 cups Chopped Pecans
3 cups Sweetened Shredded Coconut Flakes
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk

Preheat oven to 350°F.Mix together melted butter and graham cracker crumbs in a bowl. Press into the bottom of a 9×13 baking dish. Top with chocolate chips, followed by chopped pecans, and finally the shredded coconut. Drizzle the sweetened condensed milk all over the top.Bake for about 30 minutes until coconut begins to toast. Let cool completely and refrigerate for 1 hour to make cutting easier.Cut into pieces and serve. These will keep up to 3 days in an airtight container at room temperature. If your kitchen runs hot, you can also keep these in the fridge, just take them out 15 minutes before serving.Recipe slightly adapted from Serious Eats.

Boozy Blood Orange Margarita Cake
1 cup Sugar
1 Blood Orange, Zested
1 Lime, Zested
2 Eggs
1/2 cups Oil
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1-3/4 cup Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/4 cups Milk
3 Tablespoons Blood Orange Juice
3 Tablespoons Lime Juice
1/2 cups Tequila, Divided
1/4 cups Orange Liqueur, Divided
FOR THE BLOOD ORANGE WHIPPED CREAM:
1 cup Heavy Whipping Cream
2 Tablespoons Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Orange Zest
2 Tablespoons Blood Orange Juice

Preheat oven to 350°F. Grease a 9-in cake pan and set aside.In a large bowl, beat sugar, citrus zests, and eggs until pale yellow. Mix in oil and vanilla.In a separate bowl, whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Add to egg mixture. Carefully stir in milk, orange juice, lime juice, ¼ cup tequila, and 2 tablespoons orange liqueur.Pour batter into prepared cake pan and bake 35–40 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Remove cake from oven and using a wooden skewer, poke a few holes into the cake.Stir remaining tequila and orange liquor in a small bowl and pour over hot cake. Allow cake to cool completely in pan. Once cake is cooled, remove from cake pan and top with blood orange whipped cream (instructions below).Cake can be served right away or place in refrigerator for a few hours to serve cold. Store cake in refrigerator.For the blood orange whipped cream: In a large bowl, or bowl of a stand mixer with the whisk attachment, beat chilled heavy cream, sugar, zest, and orange juice until stiff peaks form.

Flourless Paleo Banana Chocolate Muffins
2 whole Medium Eggs
4 Tablespoons Cocoa Powder
2 Tablespoons Sweetener Of Your Choice (optional)
1 whole Ripe Banana, Mashed
5 Tablespoons Tahini (or Another Nut Butter Of Your Choice)
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/4 cups Chocolate Chips Or Chopped Chocolate (optional)
Chopped Hazelnuts (optional)

Preheat oven to 170°C (325°F).Whisk eggs thoroughly—the fluffier, the better. You can use a mixer, but I do it by hand: it’s great exercise.Add cocoa powder and sweetener of your choice (if needed) and give it a good mix. Add mashed banana and tahini and mix again. Add baking soda and mix everything together. If desired, add chopped dark chocolate (or chocolate chips) and chopped hazelnuts. I reserved some hazelnuts for decoration.Pour the mixture into muffin molds and bake for 18–20 minutes. Let cool and enjoy.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Aunt Rocky’s Coffee Flour Chocolate Chip Cookies (LCHF, Keto)
4 ounces, weight Butter, Melted
2 whole Eggs (large)
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 teaspoons Maple Extract
4 drops Liquid Sucralose, Or Other Sweetener Equal To 2 Teaspoons Sugar
1/2 cups Gluten Free Oat Fiber (see Note)
1 Tablespoon Coffee Flour
1 teaspoon Instant Coffee Crystals
1/4 teaspoons Gluten Free Baking Powder
1/4 cups Granular Erythritol
1/8 teaspoons Salt
1/4 cups Just Like Sugar (Brown) Or Other Brown Sugar Substitute
1/4 cups LC Foods Dark Chocolate Chips (sugar Free)

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a large (or 2 small) cookie sheet with Silpat liners or parchment paper, set aside.Melt butter in large measuring cup or medium bowl in microwave. Add eggs, extracts, and liquid sweetener, whisk until smooth.Add all dry ingredients except chocolate chips. Use a rubber spatula or large mixing spoon to blend all ingredients well. Fold in chocolate chips. Leave batter in bowl for about 5 minutes to thicken.Scoop by 1-tablespoon cookie scoop onto baking sheet. Cookies do not spread much, so they can be a little crowded. I get the entire batch on one large cookie sheet.Bake 15 minutes. Bottoms should be browning. Let cool on cookie sheet for about 5 minutes, then transfer to wire rack to finish cooling.Store uncovered in pantry for up to 10 days. (I store in a large jar with no lid.)Note: Oat fiber is 100% fiber (no carbs). It’s ground into an extremely fine powder and can be used as a thickener, or added to baked goods for a more flour-like outcome. I buy Lifesource Foods Oat Fiber 500 to assure a gluten-free oat fiber. There are other brands available that are less expensive, so if gluten is not an issue for you, look for the cheapest brand.Nutritional information (estimates are per serving based on exact ingredients I used, calculated with a free online recipe analyzer): Calories 43, Total Fat 4 g, Saturated Fat 2 g, Sodium 46 mg, Potassium 22 mg, Total Carbohydrate 3.1 g, Dietary Fiber 2.5 g, Net carbs 0.6 g, Sugars 0 g, Protein 1 g. Macros: 90% fat, 10% protein, 0% net carbs.© May 4, 2017 Roxana Lopez for Aunt Rocky’sFor more low carb/keto recipes and cooking tips, look for Aunt Rocky’s Low Carb Recipes Group on Facebook.

Best Dark Chocolate Brownie
14 Squares 72% Ghirardelli Chocolate Bar, Divided (Each 3 1/2 Oz. Bar Has 8 Squares)
1/2 cups Softened, Unsalted Butter
1-1/4 cup Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 Room Temperature Eggs
2 Tablespoons Unsweetened Cocoa Poweder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Flour

Preheat oven to 325ºF.In a heatproof bowl over simmering water, melt 10 squares chocolate and butter together. Take the bowl off heat and stir in sugar, vanilla and eggs.In a separate bowl, stir cocoa powder, salt, and flour. Add dry ingredients to the wet ingredients. Chop remaining chocolate and gently stir into batter.Pour into a greased 8×8 baking dish (based on 16-brownie serving size) and bake for approximately 47–55 minutes in a glass baking dish or 23–27 minutes in a metal baking dish. Check with a toothpick until it comes off clean.Let cool and serve with a dusting of powdered sugar.

Chocolate Chip Raspberry Coffee Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
1 cup Butter, Softened
3/4 cups Caster Sugar
2 Eggs
1-1/2 cup Cake Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
2 Tablespoons Instant Coffee
25 milliliters Boiling Water
100 milliliters Milk
160 grams Raspberries Roughly Chopped
160 grams Dark Chocolate Chips (or Roughly Chopped Bars)
FOR THE FROSTING:
2 teaspoons Instant Coffee
3 teaspoons Boiling Water
3/4 cups Butter, Softened
160 grams Raspberries, Divided
1 cup Icing Sugar

For the cake: Preheat oven to 170ºC (340ºF) and grease and lightly flour two 8-inch (20cm) round cake tins.Cream butter and sugar until creamy and white. Add eggs one at a time and beat until incorporated. Slowly add flour mixed with baking powder, a few of tablespoons at a time and beat until incorporated.Dissolve coffee in boiling water. Pour milk into the coffee. Add to the cake batter, beating in a little at a time. Fold in raspberries and chocolate chips.Divide the cake batter evenly between the cake tins and bake for about 25–30 minutes. They’re ready when you press down gently on the cake and it springs back. Switch the oven off and leave the oven door ajar with the cakes in the oven for 10 minutes to cool slowly. (This stops them from sinking in the middle!).Remove cakes from the oven and allow to cool for 15 minutes before turning out onto cooling racks to cool completely.For the frosting: Dissolve coffee in boiling water. Set aside.Beat butter and sugar until light and creamy. Beat in the coffee.Keep about 20 whole raspberries for the top of the cake, and roughly chop the remaining berries. Fold chopped berries into the frosting.Place one of the cakes on a serving plate and pile just over 1/3 of the frosting on the top of the cake. Spread with a butter knife, keeping it rustic. Place the other cake on top and pile the remaining icing on top and spread again with a butter knife. Top with the whole fresh raspberries.

Coconut Chia Pudding
1/2 cups Chia Seeds
1 can (13 1/2 Oz. Size) Coconut Milk
1 cup Almond Milk
1/4 cups Maple Syrup
Cut Berries Or Mango, For Serving

In a large bowl, stir chia seeds, coconut milk, almond milk, and maple syrup until combined.Refrigerate for at least 2 hours, until chia seeds have gelled and liquid has thickened. Serve with fruit. Enjoy!Note: Make sure to use a homogenized full-fat coconut milk, not light coconut milk.

Carrot Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
2 cups All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 pinch Salt
1-1/2 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/4 teaspoons Powdered Cloves
1 pinch Nutmeg
1 pound Grated Peeled Carrots
1 cup Coarsely Chopped Pecans
1 cup Canola Or Other Vegetable Oil
1/2 cups Buttermilk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 cups Granulated Sugar
4 whole Large Eggs
FOR THE FROSTING:
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, At Room Temperature
1/4 cups Salted Butter, At Room Temperature
2-1/2 cups Powdered Sugar

For the cake: Preheat oven to 350°F. Grease and flour two 9-inch round pans.In a large bowl, mix flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt and spices. Stir in carrots. Fold in pecans.In the bowl of stand mixer or with hand mixer, whisk oil, buttermilk and vanilla. Add sugar and beat well. Add eggs one at a time and beat until light and fluffy. Beat in dry ingredients until just combined.Divide batter between prepared pans and bake on middle rack of oven for 30 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 325°F and bake for another 10–15 minutes or until cakes are done and toothpick inserted in the middle comes out clean.For the frosting: In a large bowl, combine cream cheese with butter and beat in mixer on medium speed just until blended. Add powdered sugar 1 cup at a time, beating until smooth between each addition. Beat on high for about 3 minutes until soft and fluffy.Spread on a thick layer of frosting on top of one cake. Place second cake over first and cover sides and top of second with remaining frosting.Cake recipe adapted from Food & Wine.

Baked Churro Bites with Homemade Dulce de Leche
FOR THE CINNAMON SUGAR MIXTURE:
1/4 cups Sugar
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
FOR THE CHURRO DOUGH:
1 cup Water
1/3 cups Butter
2 Tablespoons Brown Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 cup Flour
2 Eggs, Beaten
FOR THE DULCE DE LECHE:
4 cups Milk
1 cup Sugar
1 pinch Salt (optional)
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda

Preheat oven to 425°F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and set aside.In a bowl, mix sugar and cinnamon for the cinnamon sugar mixture. Set aside.Add water, butter, brown sugar, and salt in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Heat until butter melts and mixture comes to a boil.Remove from heat and mix in flour with a wooden spoon. The mixture will come together and pull away from the sides of the pot. In three additions, slowly add beaten eggs, mixing well before the next addition.Form balls with the dough, about 1 inch big, and place them on the parchment-lined baking sheet. Alternatively, you can fill a pastry bag with the dough and pipe it onto the baking sheet.Bake for 10–12 minutes, or until churros are golden brown. Remove from oven and roll in cinnamon sugar mixture while still hot. Serve with dulce de leche.For the dulce de leche: Add milk, sugar, and salt (if using) in a large pot. Bring to a simmer over medium heat, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat and stir in baking soda dissolved in water a little water. Be careful because the milk might foam up.Return pot to heat and bring to a low simmer. Do not boil! Check mixture every 15 minutes and give it a stir to make sure it isn’t burning on the bottom. Cook for 1 to 1 ½ hours until mixture turns golden brown.Store dulce de leche in a jar in the refrigerator for up to 4 weeks.

Peanut Butter Ice Cream Sundae Nachos
6 Waffle Cones
4 Scoops Blue Bunny® PB 'N Cone™ Ice Cream
3 Tablespoons Hot Fudge Sauce
2 Tablespoons Peanut Butter Chips
Sprinkles, Whipped Cream, Maraschino Cherry, For Garnish

Break waffle cones into large chunks and spread onto a plate or bowl. Top with ice cream. Drizzle hot fudge over ice cream.Add peanut butter chips, sprinkles, cherry, and whipped cream. Serve immediately. Enjoy!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Salted Caramel Corn Ice Cream
FOR THE CARAMEL CORN:
1 stick Unsalted Butter
1 cup Light Brown Sugar, Packed
1/2 Tablespoons Kosher Salt
1/4 cups Light Corn Syrup
4 cups Plain Pop Corn
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
FOR THE ICE CREAM:
2 cups Half-and-half
1 cup Heavy Cream
1 cup Sugar
2 ears Fresh Sweet Corn
2 cups Caramel Corn

For the caramel corn: Preheat oven to 200ºF. Over medium heat, bring butter, brown sugar, salt and corn syrup to a boil. Continue boiling for 5 minutes. Place popcorn in a baking dish, set aside.Remove sugar mixture from heat and stir in baking soda. Pour directly over the popcorn and stir to coat evenly. Bake from 1 hour, stirring every 15 minutes. Spread popcorn on a nonstick baking pan and dry.For the ice cream: In a saucepan, combine half-and-half, heavy cream, sugar and shucked corn. Over medium-low heat, simmer for 10 minutes, until corn is cooked through and very tender. Place mixture in a blender in small batches and blend until smooth. Strain through a fine mesh strainer and let cool.Place mixture in ice cream machine and follow instructions to freeze the ice cream until soft serve consistency. Fold in caramel corn. Transfer to a freezable container and freeze overnight.Makes about 1 quart ice cream.

Mint Ice Cream with Bourbon Magic Shell
FOR THE MINT ICE CREAM:
2 cups 2% Milk
1 cup Half-and-half
1/2 cups Fresh Mint Leaves
3/4 cups Sugar
Dash Of Salt
2 Large Egg Yolks
1 teaspoon Good Vanilla Extract
FOR THE BOURBON MAGIC SHELL:
1 cup Bittersweet Chocolate, Chopped (semi-sweet If You Like It Sweeter)
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1 Tablespoon Bourbon

Combine milk, half-and-half, and mint in a medium, heavy saucepan over medium-high heat. Heat to 180ºF or until tiny bubbles forms around the edge. Keep an eye on the mixture to ensure it doesn’t boil.Remove from heat, cover and let stand for 10 minutes to allow the mint to steep.Uncover it and pour the mixture through a colander into a medium bowl. Discard the leaves, and pour the liquid back into your pan.In a new bowl, combine sugar, salt, and egg yolks. Whisk until mixture is pale. Gradually add half of the milk mixture to the egg mixture, whisking constantly. Pour the mixture back into the pan with the rest of the milk. Cook over medium-low heat for about 2 minutes, stirring constantly.Pour the mixture into a bowl and stir in vanilla extract. Place bowl in the fridge until mixture cools completely, stirring occasionally.Pour mixture into your ice cream maker and follow the manufacturer’s instructions. I let mine go for about 25 minutes. Transfer mixture to a freezer-safe container and freeze for a couple of hours. In the meantime, make your magic shell.Add the chocolate to a microwave-safe bowl or container along with the coconut oil. Microwave, in 30-second intervals, until completely melted. Stir in bourbon.Pour it over the mint ice cream and allow to harden 30 seconds before you try to crack it. It will turn from glossy to matte when it’s ready. Devour with abandon.

Coconut Almond Greek Yoghurt Sheet Cake
FOR THE COCONUT CAKE:
3 cups Cake Flour
1/2 cups Coconut Flour
1 cup Desiccated Coconut
1/2 cups Caster Sugar
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 cups Greek Yoghurt
1 cup Coconut Milk
1/3 cups Coconut Oil
1 Tablespoon Honey
1 teaspoon Almond Essence
2 Eggs, Lightly Beaten
FOR THE ICING:
1/4 cups Greek Yoghurt
1/8 cups Coconut Milk
1/4 teaspoons Almond Essence
2 cups Icing Sugar
1 cup Desiccated Coconut

For the cake: Preheat oven to 160ºC (320ºF). Grease a 30 x 20 cm (12 x 8 inch) sheet pan.Sieve the cake flour into a mixing bowl, then stir in coconut flour, desiccated coconut, sugar, baking powder and salt.In another mixing bowl, whisk together remaining ingredients (wet ingredients) and then stir them into the dry ingredients, make sure to incorporate all the dry ingredients off the bottom of the bowl. It will be quite dense but not dry.Pour the cake mixture into the sheet pan and spread out evenly. Bake for about 30 minutes until a tester stick comes out clean. Allow to cool completely before icing the cake in the sheet pan. Cut the cake into squares and serve.For the icing: In a mixing bowl, stir the Greek yoghurt, coconut milk and almond essence together. Sieve in icing sugar and stir in. Add the desiccated coconut and stir in.

Strawberry Nutella Puff Pastry
1 whole Sheet Frozen Puff Pastry, Thawed
1 Egg, Beaten (optional)
1/2 cups Chocolate Hazelnut Spread, Such As Nutella
Fresh Sliced Strawberries

Preheat oven to 375ºF.Use a sharp knife to score the edges of the puff pastry, about 1 centimeter in from the edges. Use a fork to prick the interior of the puff pastry. If desired, brush the beaten egg along the edge of the puff pastry.Bake the puff pastry for 15 minutes, until puffed and golden brown. Use a spatula to stamp down the interior of the puff pastry to separate it from the crust. If you desire a more golden and baked puff pastry, bake for 3 more minutes.Spread the chocolate hazelnut spread evenly in the center, then add the sliced strawberries in a single layer. Slice and enjoy!

Sponge Cake from Ovar
1-1/4 cup Sugar
13 Yolks
5 Eggs
1 cup Flour
1 pinch Salt

Line a clay cake pan with foolscap paper or other thick white paper (I used 2 sheets).In a large bowl, whisk sugar, yolks, and eggs for 30 minutes or use an electric mixer for 15 minutes. Meanwhile, preheat oven to 220ºC (428ºF).Sift flour and salt and gently fold it all together. Pour batter into prepared pans and bake for 10 minutes. Lower oven temperature to 180ºC (356ºF) for 20 minutes more.When you take it out of the oven, it should be golden brown and the center should shake a little. Let it sit in the pan until cool. Remove carefully so it doesn’t crack.

Brown Butter Caramel Crumble Apple Pie
FOR THE APPLES:
8 Sour Green Apples (I Used Golden Delicious)
1 Lemon, Juiced
3 Tablespoons Brown Sugar
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
FOR THE CRUST:
3/4 pounds, 2-1/8 ounces, weight Shortcrust Pastry (or 1 Pastry Case)
FOR THE CARAMEL CRUMBLE:
1 cup Salted Butter
3 Tablespoons Brown Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Essence
3 Tablespoons Rolled Oats
6 Tablespoons Cake Flour

Preheat oven to 180ºC (355ºF).Peal, core and slice apples. Toss in a large bowl with lemon juice, brown sugar and cinnamon. Set aside for the flavours to come together and apples to become juicy.Grease and flour pie dish (I used a 26cm or 10-inch round springform pan). Roll out pastry to the right size for your pie dish and line the dish or pan with the pastry (go all the way up the sides of the dish or pan). Cut off the excess with a knife. Score the bottom of the pastry several times with a fork and bake for 8 minutes until it is very lightly golden.While pastry is baking, prepare caramel crumble. Place butter into a saucepan and bring it to a simmer until it browns—watch it closely so it doesn’t burn. Add brown sugar and vanilla and simmer until sugar dissolves. This sauce should thicken and become a bit like caramel. Stir in the oats and flour.Place apples in the pastry case. You can arrange them in circles like I did, or just pile them in—it doesn’t have to be perfect! (Don’t pour in the excess juices.) Top with the caramel crumble. I like to crumble it on with my fingers to get a nice even layer.Bake for 10 minutes. Turn the oven down to 160ºC (320ºF) and bake for another 20 minutes until apples are tender and topping is golden brown. Take pie out of the oven and leave it to cool in the pie dish or pan for about 15 minutes before serving.Serve with whipped cream or ice cream.

Brigadeiros (Brazilian Fudge Balls)
4 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
2 Tablespoons Heavy Cream
2 cans (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
3 ounces, weight Finely-chopped Semisweet Chocolate
1 Tablespoon Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1 cup Chocolate Sprinkles

Put butter, cream and condensed milk in a medium or large saucepan and bring to a boil. Add chocolate and cocoa, reduce heat to low, and cook. Keep stirring the entire time, until consistency is like a dense batter, about 15 minutes.When mixture is nice and dense, pour into a bowl and let cool a bit before chilling for 4 hours.When fudge is sufficiently chilled, use a tablespoon as a portion guide and roll each portion into a ball. I wore nitrile gloves while rolling, to help slow the transfer of heat from my hands to the fudge. Work fast! Chill again after rolling.When balls have been re-chilled, pour some chocolate sprinkles into a small, shallow bowl and roll fudge until each ball is covered.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Double Glazed Spanish Puff Pastry Twists
FOR THE TWISTS:
2 whole (400g Size) Puff Pastry Sheets
FOR THE EGG YOLK SYRUP:
4 Egg Yolks
80 milliliters Water
1 cup Sugar
FOR THE GLASSY GLAZE:
1-1/2 cup Icing Sugar
70 milliliters Water
2 whole Lemons, Zest Only

Preheat oven to 200ºC (390ºF).On a clean floured surface, roll out pastry sheets to 2mm thick. Place the one sheet on top of the other. Cut sheets in half and place 2 sheets on top of the other two sheets. Roll the 4 sheets lightly to get the layers to stick together.Cut the pastry crosswise into 2 halves. Then slice the pastry lengthwise into 1-inch wide strips, then into 2 rows crosswise. Do the same thing with the other half.Twist the oblong pastry pieces so they look like bow ties. Place on a lightly greased baking tray about 2 inches apart, as they puff up a lot. Bake 12 minutes until they are golden and have doubled in size. Cook the twists in batches if they don’t all fit on one baking tray.For the egg yolk syrup: Whisk egg yolks in a bowl. Place water and sugar in a saucepan, boil for 2–3 minutes until soft thread stage (when you place a spoon in and pull it out, a soft thread develops). Leave to cool for 3 minutes.Pour sugar water onto the egg yolks very slowly while whisking vigorously. Pour mixture back into the saucepan and boil for 3 minutes, whisking continuously until it thickens.Dip the twists lengthwise into the egg yolk syrup. Place on a cooling rack, syrup side up, for the syrup to drip down the sides of the twists. Leave to set for 30 minutes.For the glassy glaze: Mix icing sugar and water. Dip twists lengthwise into the glassy glaze. Place on a cooling rack, icing side up, for the icing to drip down the sides of the twists. Sprinkle with lemon zest. Allow to set for another 30 minutes before serving.

No-Bake Vegan Coconut and Orange Jam Cookies
1/2 cups Desiccated Coconut
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
2 Tablespoons Tahini Or Another Nut Butter
3 Tablespoons Orange Jam
3 Tablespoons Dried Coconut Flakes

Note: You don’t have to melt the coconut oil.Mix all ingredients together except for the jam and the coconut flakes. Reserve about 1 tablespoon of the mixture and divide the rest between the muffin molds. Press the mixture onto the bottom of the molds, but leave a little hollow space in the center. Fill the spaces with jam.Mix the reserved crust mixture with coconut flakes. Sprinkle it over the cups and press down a little if needed.Refrigerate cups for a few hours or overnight.

Crispy Honey Cookies with Nuts (Dairy-Free, Gluten-Free)
1 whole Egg
4 Tablespoons Honey
4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
3/4 cups Flour Blend (Equal Parts Rice Flour And Oat Flour)
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 cups Chopped Nuts Of Your Choice

Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F).Combine egg with honey and coconut oil and whisk very well.Mix flour and baking powder, and start adding it to the eggs little by little. Using a silicone spatula will help a lot. Add chopped nuts and make cookies out of the mixture. I was able to make 16 small cookies.Place onto a baking tray covered with baking paper and bake for about 15 minutes. They are ready when the kitchen starts smelling nice and the cookie bottoms are slightly golden. Let cool completely and enjoy!

Easy Cream Cheese Frosted Carrot Pecan Cupcakes
FOR THE CUPCAKES:
4 Eggs, Separated
3/4 cups Brown Sugar
3 cups Grated Carrot
1 Orange, Zest And Juice
1 cup Pecans Chopped Fairly Small
2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Mixed Spice
1 teaspoon Vanilla Essence
1-3/4 cup Whole Wheat Or Brown Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
FOR THE CREAM CHEESE ICING:
250 grams Cream Cheese
1/4 cups Butter, At Room Temperature
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Essence
1 cup Icing Sugar

For the cake: Preheat oven to 170ºC (340ºF).Whisk egg yolks and brown sugar until creamy and light in colour. Add remaining ingredients except egg whites and fold in until well-combined.With an electric beater, beat egg whites until stiff. Fold gently into the cupcake mixture with a metal spoon.Place paper cases in a cupcake pan, spoon in the mixture so the cases are 3/4 full. Bake for 20 minutes.Take the cupcakes out of the cupcake pan and place them on cooling racks until cupcakes are completely cool.For the frosting: In a mixing bowl, use an electric beater to combine cream cheese and butter. Beat just until creamy and lump-free. Be careful not to over-beat or the frosting will become too soft.Mix in the vanilla essence with a metal spoon, then gradually sieve in the icing sugar 1/2 cup at a time and mix in with a metal spoon.Pipe or spread the frosting onto the cupcakes immediately and then serve straight away, or store them in the fridge until you are ready to serve them. You can also keep the frosting in a covered container in the fridge until you are ready to frost the cupcakes. The frosting is best used the same day.

Rose Chocolate Truffles
1/4 cups Fresh Cream Or Heavy Cream
25 grams Butter
250 grams White Chocolate, Roughly Chopped
2 drops Pink Food Coloring
2 Tablespoons Gulkand (rose Petal Jam)
1/2 teaspoons Rosewater (optional)
Icing Sugar, For Rolling

In a bowl, microwave cream and butter for about 1 minute, until just boiling. Add chopped chocolate, food coloring and gulkand or rose petal jam. Taste and add rosewater if you want a more pronounced rose flavour.Stir mixture until chocolate has melted, microwaving an additional 30 seconds if necessary. Refrigerate for 1–2 hours, until firm.Using a scoop, roll even amounts of mixture into balls about ½ inch in size. Return to the fridge for 10–15 minutes. Roll in icing sugar before serving.

Aunt Rocky’s Coconut Clouds with Kumquat (LCHF)
FOR THE COOKIES:
6 whole Kumquats, Quartered And Seeded, Then Processed
4 whole Egg Whites, Large
2 Tablespoons Granulated Erythritol (or Sweetener Of Choice)
2 cups Bob's Red Mill Unsweetened Shredded Coconut
1 teaspoon Orange Extract
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
FOR THE DRIZZLE:
3 ounces, weight Bakers Unsweetened Chocolate, Chopped
1/2 teaspoons Coconut Oil
2 drops Liquid Sucralose (or Equivalent Liquid Sweetener)

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line 2 large cookie sheets with silicone sheets or parchment paper, set aside.For the cookies: Quarter the kumquats, remove seeds, pulverize in small processor or blender. Set aside.Beat egg whites and sweetener in a large mixing bowl on high speed with hand mixer (or use stand mixer) until egg whites form stiff peaks. Dump shredded coconut and both extracts on top of the egg whites, and gently fold in with a spatula until well combined.Using a 1-tablespoon cookie scoop, drop by well rounded scoops onto cookie sheet. (I arrange them 4 x 5, for 20 cookies to a sheet). Press down any spikes or peaks that might be sticking out. Cookies will not expand, but leave room around each so that they brown evenly.Bake for 12–14 minutes, or until cookies are browning all over. Transfer to cooling rack and allow to cool completely.For the drizzle: Once the cookies are completely cooled, make the chocolate drizzle. Put the chopped chocolate pieces and coconut oil in a small measuring cup. Microwave in 30-second intervals until everything is melted and can be stirred together with a small whisk or fork. Add the sweetener and mix again. Using a teaspoon, drizzle a little bit of sauce over each cookie. Allow to sit until chocolate is completely hardened (speed up by putting in the refrigerator, if you want to).Tip: Egg whites will peak faster if you use a chilled bowl. Be sure there is no residue of any kind in the bowl, or it will interfere with the process and keep your egg whites from coming to stiff peaks.Variations: You can use any flavoring in these cookies that you like. Omit the kumquats and orange extract, and add extra vanilla or other extracts. Add chocolate chips or finely chopped nuts. Change them up however you like. Be sure to count carbs for any add-ins.Recipe inspired by Sugar-Free Macaroons from Ditch the Carbs.Nutritional information (estimates are per serving of 2 cookies based on exact ingredients I used, calculated with a free online recipe analyzer): Calories 72, Total Fat 7 g, Saturated Fat 6 g, Sodium 3 mg, Potassium 11 mg, Total Carbohydrate 2 g, Dietary Fiber 0 g, Net Carbs 2 g, Sugars 1 g, Protein 2 g. Macros: 80% fat, 10% protein, 10% carbs.© April 1, 2017 Roxana Lopez for Aunt Rocky’sFor more low carb/keto recipes and cooking tips, look for Aunt Rocky’s Low Carb Recipes Group on Facebook.

Butterfinger Brownies
1/2 cups Butter, Softened, Plus 1 Tablespoon For Greasing The Pan
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Eggs
1/2 cups Milk
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate Chips, Melted And Slightly Cooled
1/2 cups Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips, Melted And Slightly Cooled
1/4 teaspoons Baking Powder, Heaping
1/2 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Plus 2 Tablespoons Flour
9 whole Mini Butterfinger Candy Bars
FOR THE TOPPING:
1 cup Dark Chocolate Chips, Melted
1 cup Semi-Chocolate Chips, Melted
18 Mini Butterfinger Candy Bars, Cut Into Chunks

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease the bottom and sides of a metal baking pan (8-inches square) with 1 tablespoon butter. Lay a large square piece of parchment paper in the pan so that there is about 2 inches of paper extending over the edges to use as a sling when removing the brownies from the pan. Lightly press the paper to the bottom and sides of the pan so it sticks to the butter. Grease the paper that’s inside of the pan with butter. Set aside.To a large mixing bowl, add softened butter, sugar and eggs. Beat on high with a mixer until light and creamy. Add milk, melted chocolate, baking powder and salt. Beat on medium speed until incorporated. Using a large spatula, mix the flour by hand into the batter until incorporated.Pour half of the batter into the parchment paper lined-pan. Use a spatula to smooth and level the batter. Lay mini Butterfinger candy bars in the batter about 1 inch from the edges of the pan and equidistant from one another. Top with the remaining batter which should completely cover the candy bars. Use a spatula to smooth and level the batter.Bake in preheated oven until the sides of the brownies start to pull away from the pan (about 25 minutes). Remove from the oven and let completely cool.Lift the brownies out of the pan by using the parchment paper hanging off of the sides (the sling). Keep the brownies on the parchment paper and cut into serving sizes. Transfer the serving pieces on to a serving dish/serving dishes that are lined with fresh parchment paper. It’s best to serve the brownies on small pieces of parchment paper so they don’t stick to the plate.For the topping, drizzle melted chocolate on top of one of the brownies and top with chunks of Butterfinger candy. Do this one at a time so that the pieces of Butterfinger will stick to the chocolate before it hardens. Repeat the process with each brownie. Remelt the chocolate if needed.

Galatobouriko (Greek Custard Pastry)
FOR THE SYRUP:
1/2 cups Sugar
1 cup Honey
1-1/2 cup Water
2 Tablespoons Lemon Juice
1/4 cups Orange Juice
FOR THE CUSTARD FILLING:
1/2 cups Butter
4-1/2 cups Milk
1/2 cups Farina
6 whole Eggs
1/2 cups Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla
FOR THE FILO DOUGH:
1 cup Butter, Melted
1 pound Filo Dough

Prepare the syrup first. In a small sauce pan, combine sugar, honey and water. Bring to a slow boil, stirring occasionally until sugar is completely dissolved. Add lemon juice and orange juice. Cook, stirring occasionally, over medium heat for 10 minutes. Remove from heat and set aside.Heat oven to 350ºF.For the custard, in a 4-quart saucepan, mix butter and milk. Bring to a boil over medium heat, stirring constantly. Add farina and cook for 5 minutes, continuing to stir to prevent lumps. Remove from heat.In a large bowl, combine eggs, sugar and vanilla. Slowly add 1 cup of the hot mixture to the bowl and blend. Return egg mixture to the saucepan and stir until smooth and thick. Set aside to cool.Brush a 9 x 13 x 2 inch baking dish with melted butter. Place 8 filo sheets on bottom of pan, brushing between each one with melted butter. Place an additional 4 filo sheets in pan, allowing the edges to drape over each of the 4 sides of the pan. Brush with melted butter.Pour filling into the filo-lined pan and spread evenly. Fold overlapping filo sheets to envelop the filling. Top pastry with remaining filo, brushing with melted butter.Score the dough through the top layers of filo with a sharp knife 4 times lengthwise. Pour any remaining butter over the top of the pastry (this keeps the filo from drying out during baking).Bake in preheated 350ºF oven for 1 hour or until pastry is golden and puffed. Remove pastry to a rack and cool for 5 minutes. Spoon cooled syrup over pastry and allow to stand for 30 minutes.Cut into 40 diamond shaped pieces. Enjoy this authentic, luscious Greek dessert!

Chocolate Chia Pudding
FOR THE PUDDING:
1 cup Almond Milk
3 Tablespoons Chia Seeds
3 Tablespoons Raw Cacao Powder
5 Medjool Dates, Pitted
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
Pinch Of Salt
FOR THE WHIPPED CREAM:
1 can (13 1/2 Oz. Size) Coconut Milk, Refrigerated Overnight
1 Tablespoon Maple
Cacao Nibs, For Garnish

Place all the ingredients for the pudding in a blender cup and blend until the mixture is thick and creamy (about 2 minutes if using a NutriBullet or Vitamix). Divide between serving cups.Take coconut milk can out of the fridge, open and scoop out the hardened cream layer from the top, leaving the liquid behind. Place cream in a small bowl with honey and whip until light and fluffy.Top pudding with cream and cacao nibs.

Chocolate Drizzled Raspberry White Chocolate Chip Cookies
4 ounces, weight Butter, Room Temperature
1 cup Light Brown Sugar, Packed
1 Egg, Room Temperature
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1-3/4 cup Flour (I Used Whole Wheat Pastry Flour)
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1-1/3 ounce, weight Or About 1 Cup Freeze Dried Raspberries
8 ounces, weight White Chocolate Chips, Divided
4 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate

Preheat oven to 350°F.In a large bowl or bowl of an electric mixer, cream softened butter and sugar on medium speed until light at fluffy. Scrape down the sides of the bowl and add egg and vanilla. Beat well.In a separate bowl, whisk flour, baking soda, and salt. Add flour mixture to butter, mixing on low speed until ingredients are combined (don’t over-mix!). Fold in freeze dried raspberries and half of the white chocolate chips.Scoop out cookies with an ice cream scoop or form them by hand and place them on a parchment lined baking sheet. Bake 10–12 minutes. Remove from oven and let cool for 5 minutes before transferring to a cooling rack.While cookies are cooling, melt remaining white chocolate and dark chocolate in 2 separate bowls. Put melted chocolate in piping bags or small zip-top bags. Snip the corner with a pair of scissors and drizzle chocolate over cooled cookies. Allow the chocolate to set about 5 minutes.Enjoy!

Grain-Free Carrot Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting
3 Eggs
1 cup Olive Oil
1-1/2 cup Coconut Sugar
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 cup Tapioca Flour
1/2 cups Coconut Flour
4 Grated Carrots
FOR THE FROSTING:
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese
1 stick Butter, Softened
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
3 Tablespoons Real Maple Syrup
1 cup Tapioca Flour

Preheat oven to 350°F and grease two round 8-inch cake pans.With a hand mixer, beat eggs, oil, and coconut sugar until combined. Add cinnamon, baking powder, salt, vanilla extract and combine. Slowly add the flours as you beat the mixture until everything is incorporated.Add grated carrots and hand mix with a spoon or spatula. Evenly divide batter between the two pans and bake for 25 minutes. Wait until cakes are completely cooled to frost.For the frosting: Add all ingredients in a bowl except for the tapioca flour and beat with a hand mixer. Slowly add tapioca flour and mix until everything is combined and the frosting is thick and fluffy (a few minutes).Note: For dairy free frosting substitute, use Kite Hill almond cream cheese and Spectrum non-hydrogenated palm shortening instead of the cream cheese and butter.

Raw Vegan Carrot Cake Truffles For Easter
10 whole Dates
1 whole Carrot
1/2 cups Walnuts
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ginger
FOR THE GLAZE:
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1 Tablespoon Cocoa Butter
1 Tablespoon Powdered Sugar
Cinnamon, To Taste

Presoak dates in water if needed. Grind the carrot in a food processor. Remove carrots and grind the nuts in the food processor. Add dates and grind again. Add ground carrot and spices, and process until you have a dough-like mixture.If the mixture is too soft, put it in the fridge for 1 hour before shaping the eggs. I made mine with flat bottoms so they can stand on their own. Freeze for 30–40 minutes.For the glaze, melt coconut oil and cocoa butter. Add sugar and cinnamon. Allow to cool if glaze is still a bit too warm.Take truffles out of the freezer and pour glaze over the eggs. It can get a little messy, but that’s the way that worked best for me. Put back into the fridge for a few hours or preferably overnight.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Chocolate Banana Bread Brownies
3/4 sticks Unsalted Butter
3/4 cups Semisweet Chocolate Chips
1-3/4 cup Mashed Bananas
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
3 Large Eggs, Slightly Beaten
1-3/4 cup All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 cup Coarsely Chopped Walnuts

Grease a square 9×9-inch baking pan with butter and dust with some flour. Preheat oven to 350°F.Melt butter and chocolate in a small saucepan over very low heat. Set aside to cool.In a bowl, add mashed bananas, vanilla and sugar. Mix to combine. Add beaten eggs and mix once again.Sift flour and salt into the bananas. Add walnuts and and stir to combine. Add 2/3 of the chocolate and butter mixture and mix well.Spread the batter in the baking pan. Drizzle the remaining melted chocolate on top and create chocolate streaks with a spatula. Bake for 35 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean.

Mango Semolina Cake
1 cup Semolina
3/4 cups Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cardamom (optional)
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 cups Neutral-tasting Oil
1 cup Mango Pulp
1/4 cups Chopped Nuts, For Garnish

Preheat oven to 170ºC (340ºF).Mix semolina with sugar, cardamom and baking powder. Add oil and mix well. Add mango pulp and mix again. Let it sit for 15 minutes.Pour batter in a greased loaf pan or 6-inch round pan and garnish with nuts. Bake for 30–35 minutes. Keep a close watch after 25 minutes; if it starts browning too quickly, lower the temperature a bit.Check with a toothpick in the center of the cake to see if it is properly baked. If it comes out clean, remove immediately. If it is baked longer, the cake will develop a crust on top.Allow to cool completely. Cut and serve.

Delicious Carrot Cake Cookies (Dairy-Free and Gluten-Free)
2 whole Carrots
1/4 cups Walnuts
1 whole Egg
1 Tablespoon Coconut Oil
3 Tablespoons Honey
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Orange Zest
1/4 cups Desiccated Coconut
1/4 cups Oat Flour
1/4 cups Rolled Oats
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder

Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F).Grate carrots and chop nuts, or ground both in the food processor.Beat egg very well. The more you beat it, the fluffier your cookies will be. Add coconut oil, honey and cinnamon and mix well. Add carrots and orange zest and mix again. Finally, add coconut, ground/chopped nuts, oat flour, rolled oats and baking powder. Mix everything together.Shape cookies and put them on a baking tray covered with baking paper ( was able to make 10 cookies). Bake for about 18–20 minutes. Let them cool down and enjoy!

Chocolate Cream Pie
FOR THE BASE:
225 grams Digestive Biscuits
115 grams Unsalted Butter
FOR THE FILLING:
140 milliliters Milk
25 grams Sugar
25 grams Plain Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Corn Flour
2 Eggs
25 grams Unsalted Butter
100 grams Dark Chocolate
Icing Sugar, For Dusting
FOR SERVING:
140 milliliters Double Cream
1 Tablespoon Milk
Dark Chocolate For Grating

Place digestive biscuits in a large bowl and, using the end of a rolling pin, crush until they resemble fine crumbs. Every so often, give the bowl a shake; this lets the larger chunks rise to the top and you can crush them.Melt butter gently. Add crushed biscuits and stir well. Press the biscuit and butter mixture into the base and sides of a 8.5cm loose bottomed fluted flan tin. Make sure that the base is removable or else you will have real trouble getting it out. Chill in the fridge for 1 hour.For the filling heat the milk gently in a saucepan.Meanwhile, mix sugar, flour, corn flour and eggs in a bowl. Stir in heated milk, mix then return it all to the pan. Cook over low heat intil it thickens and just comes to the boil. Stir continuously.Remove from the heat and add butter and dark chocolate. Stir until chocolate has melted and sauce is smooth. Leave to cool slightly then pour the chocolate custard over the bisuit base. Level it off then dust with icing sugar. This will prevent a skin from forming. Pop it back into the fridge to cool for about 30 minutes.When the pie is cold, whip the cream and milk together until it is stiff enough to hold its shape. Spoon over the filling and grate some dark chocolate over the top.

Gluten-Free Almond Butter Brownies
1 cup Creamy Almond Butter
1 whole Egg
3/4 cups Honey
1/2 Tablespoons Vanilla Extract
1/4 cups Cocoa Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 cups Dark Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 325ºF and prepare a 8×8 baking dish.Add all ingredients to a large bowl and stir until combined. Pour batter into the baking dish and bake for 30–35 minutes.Once baked, remove from the oven and allow to cool for 10–15 minutes before slicing and serving.

Banana Chocolate Cake with Dulce de Leche Cream Cheese Frosting
FOR THE BANANA CAKE:
2 whole Large Eggs, Room Temperature
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Large Very Ripe Bananas, Mashed
1/4 cups Vegetable Oil
1/2 Tablespoons Vanilla Extract
3/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE CHOCOLATE CAKE:
1-1/2 cup Cake Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/4 cups Boiling Water
6 Tablespoons Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1-1/2 stick Unsalted Butter, Softened
1 cup Packed Light Brown Sugar
2 whole Large Eggs, Room Temperature
1/2 cups Buttermilk, Room Temperature
1/2 Tablespoons Vanilla Extract
FOR THE DULCE DE LECHE CREAM CHEESE FROSTING:
1 stick Unsalted Butter, Softened
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened
1-1/4 cup Dulce De Leche, Divided
1/2 cups Powdered Sugar
FOR DECORATING:
5 slices Banana
1 Tablespoon Toffee Bits
1 Tablespoon Chopped Pecans

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease three 5-inch cake pans and line the bottoms with parchment paper.To prepare banana cakes, in a bowl, whisk egg, sugar, banana, oil and vanilla until smooth. Sift in flour, baking soda, baking powder and salt. Stir until just combined.Divide batter and pour into prepared cake pans. Bake 15 to 20 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the cake comes out clean.Remove from oven. When cool to handle, release cakes from pans and place cakes on rack to cool.Clean the pans. Grease them and line with parchment paper.To prepare chocolate cake, in a large bowl, whisk cake flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt.In another bowl, whisk boiling water and cocoa powder until smooth.Beat butter and sugar on medium speed in a bowl of a standing mixer until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs, one at a time. Beat in buttermilk and vanilla extract.Reduce the speed to low and beat in half of the flour mixture, followed by the chocolate mixture. Beat in the remaining flour mixture until just incorporated.Divide batter and pour into prepared cake pans. Bake 15 to 20 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the cake comes out clean.To prepare cream cheese frosting, place butter, cream cheese and 1/4 cup dulce de leche in a mixing bowl. Beat until soft and well incorporated. Add powdered sugar and continue beating until light and fluffy.To assemble the cake, place one chocolate cake layer on a serving plate, spread 1/4 cup cream cheese frosting on top, then drizzle 2 tablespoons dulce de leche on the frosting. Alternate with a banana cake layer, frosting and dulce de leche, until the last cake layer is placed. Frost the cake top and sides with the remaining buttercream.Slowly spoon the dulce de leche over the top of the cake. Use an offset spatula to gently push the dulce de leche over the sides of the cake to create the dripping effect.Garnish with banana slices, toffee bits and chopped pecans if desired. Cover and refrigerate the cake. Leave out in room temperature for at least 1 hour prior to serving.

Banana Chocolate Snack Bars
2 whole Overripe Bananas
1-1/4 cup All-purpose Flour
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1/3 cups Vegetable Oil
1/3 cups Water
1/4 cups Cocoa Powder
1 teaspoon Distilled White Vinegar
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 pinch Salt
1/2 cups Mini Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350ºF and get out an 8 x 8 baking dish. The dish should not be greased.Peel bananas and mash them thoroughly in a large mixing bowl with a fork. Then add in the flour, sugar, vegetable oil, water, cocoa powder, vinegar, baking soda, cinnamon, vanilla and salt. Stir it all together thoroughly until it becomes a thick batter. Transfer the batter to the baking dish and even it out with a spoon or spatula. Sprinkle the mini chocolate chips on top to form a top crust.Bake the mixture for 35–40 minutes, until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out cleanly. Let the bars completely cool for an hour, then cut them into 16 equal little squares and serve! They keep well in a sealed container for a couple of days too.

Aunt Rocky’s Kumquat MiniCakes (LCHF)
7 whole Kumquats, Divided
1/2 cups Coconut Flour, Briskly Whisked
1/8 teaspoons Salt
1/4 teaspoons Gluten Free Baking Soda
2/3 cups Granular Erythritol (or Equivalent Sweetener)
1 Tablespoon Oat Fiber (optional, But Adds Texture; I Use Lifesource)
1/2 cups Salted Butter, Melted
5 whole Eggs (large)
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract, Divided
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil, Softened
2 Tablespoons Cream Cheese, Softened
1/2 teaspoons Orange Extract
1/2 cups Swerve Confectioners (scant 1/2 Cup), Or Other Powdered Sweetener

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Place 12 silicone cupcake/muffin cups on a small baking sheet (or line 12 cups in muffin pan), set aside.Set one large kumquat aside for garnish on the frosting. Quarter and seed other 6 kumquats. Mash well in small processor, chopper or blender, leaving some small bits. Set aside.In a medium mixing bowl, whisk coconut flour, salt, baking powder, erythritol, and oat fiber until there are no lumps. Set aside.In a small mixing bowl, melt butter in the microwave (45 seconds or so). Add eggs and 1 teaspoon of the vanilla, whisk well. (Reserve remaining vanilla for frosting.)Add wet mixture to the dry ingredients and quickly mix with a spoon or whisk. Transfer batter into baking pan, and smooth top (batter will thicken quickly due to the coconut flour).Bake 35 minutes, then check with toothpick.Tops may look damp on top due to the butter content, but they are golden brown and pass the toothpick test, remove from oven. Cool completely before frosting.For the frosting, soften the coconut oil and cream cheese just enough so they can be whisked smooth, about 15 seconds. Don’t melt! If you accidentally melt them, put in refrigerator for a few minutes to firm up again, just enough for whisking. Add remaining vanilla extract, orange extracvt and powdered sweetener, whisk until smooth and fluffy. Frost the mini cakes, and garnish with a 1/2 of a thin slice of kumquat sliced from the one that was set aside.Refrigerate minicakes until frosting sets up firm. Store leftovers in refrigerator. May be frozen.Nutritional information (estimates are per serving based on exact ingredients I used, calculated with a free online recipe analyzer): Calories 144, Total Fat 13 g, Saturated Fat 8 g, Sodium 142 mg, Potassium 53 mg, Total Carbohydrate 5 g, Dietary Fiber 2 g, Net Carbs 3 g, Sugars 2 g, Protein 3 g. Macros: 83% fat, 9% protein, 9% net carbs.© March 28, 2017 Roxana Lopez for Aunt Rocky’sFor more low carb/keto recipes and cooking tips, look for Aunt Rocky’s Low Carb Recipes Group on Facebook.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

D’Vash Roasted Pears
1 Tablespoon Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups Water
1 Tablespoon Unsalted Butter
2 whole Pears, Quartered
2 sticks (5g Size) D’Vash Nectar
4 Scoops Vanilla Ice Cream, To Serve

This recipe could not be any easier to make, and it is a perfect dessert.Start by heating a medium skillet on medium heat. Add sugar, water, butter, and let butter melt. Next add pears and date nectar. Give a gentle toss, and continue to cook for about 10–15 minutes or until pears soften and mixture becomes a thick syrup.When you are ready to serve, scoop some vanilla ice cream into a serving bowl. Ladle in some pears and the sweet syrup. Dig in.

Easter Egg Sugar Cookies
FOR THE SUGAR COOKIES:
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter
1 cup Sugar
1 Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2 cups All-purpose Flour
FOR THE ROYAL ICING:
2 Tablespoons Meringue Powder
3 cups Confectioners Sugar
1/4 cups Water
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
Food Coloring

For the sugar cookies: In a large bowl, cream butter and sugar together using an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Beat in egg and vanilla. Turn mixer to low and add baking powder and salt. Gradually add flour and mix until combined.Form dough into a ball and wrap dough tightly in plastic cling wrap and freeze for 30 minutes or refrigerate until firm (at least 1 hour or overnight).Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line the cookie sheet with parchment paper.Remove dough from fridge and let it stand for 5–10 minutes.Roll out dough on a lightly floured surface to about ¼-inch thick. Cut out shapes using egg-shaped cookie cutters. Transfer cookies onto the cookie sheet, placing them 1 inch apart. Re-roll scraps and repeat.Bake cookies for 8–10 minutes depending on thickness. Let it cool for 1 minute on the pan and then transfer cookies to a wire rack to cool completely.For the royal icing: In large bowl, combine meringue powder with the confectioners sugar. Add water and vanilla extract and beat with a mixer on medium-high until smooth. If you find that the icing is too thick, add more water. If too think, add more sugar.Add food coloring, if desired. Note that if you are adding liquid food colouring, this will have an effect on your consistency. You may need to add more sugar to thicken it.Pipe icing onto the cookies. Allow icing to harden for an hour before you apply the second layer (white designs).

4-Ingredient Matcha Frozen Yogurt
3 cups Greek God's Traditional Plain Greek Yogurt
3/4 cups Pure Maple Syrup
2 Tablespoons Matcha Powder
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

Start by adding yogurt to a kitchen blender, followed by pure maple syrup, matcha powder, and vanilla extract. Blend until fully mixed. You may need to scrape down the sides using a spatula.Transfer this mixture to an ice cube tray mold or two. (You could also use an ice cream maker at this point, if you’d prefer.) Once you’ve filled all the ice cube blocks, transfer to the freezer and freeze until solid, about 4–6 hours.Once frozen, remove from the tray and transfer to the bowl of a food processor. Process until all the cubes are completely broken down and you have the creamy consistency of frozen yogurt. (You may need to scrape down the sides of the food processor a time or two to help it along and it can also help to let the cubes sit for a minute or two to slightly thaw.)The matcha frozen yogurt is ready to eat now, or you can transfer to an airtight container and freeze for later.I love to top this frozen yogurt with some toasted coconut flakes for a little texture. See note below for how to make toasted coconut.Note: To make toasted coconut, spread 1 cup unsweetened coconut flakes on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper or tin foil and place in preheated oven at 325ºF for 5–6 minutes, tossing halfway through. Watch carefully as they can burn easily. Coconut is ready when light golden brown and fragrant.

Tiramisu Cupcakes
FOR THE CUPCAKES:
1-1/4 cup All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 stick Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
6 Tablespoons Mascarpone Cheese, Softened To Room Temperature
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
3 whole Egg Whites
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Buttermilk
FOR THE FILLING:
1/2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
6 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar
2 whole Egg Yolks, Reserved From Eggs In The Cupcake Batter
1/2 cups Mascarpone Cheese, Softened To Room Temperature
2-1/2 Tablespoons Hot Water
1 Tablespoon Instant Espresso Powder
1/4 cups Godiva Chocolate Liqueur
FOR THE FROSTING:
1 stick Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
1/2 cups Mascarpone Cheese, Softened To Room Temperature
1-1/2 Tablespoon Hot Water
1 Tablespoon Instant Espresso Powder
4 cups Powdered Sugar
1 ounce, weight Chocolate, For Grating Onto The Cupcakes

Preheat oven to 350ºF and line each well of a 12-well cupcake tin with a paper liner.Whisk the flour, baking powder and cinnamon together in a bowl and set it aside. Then set up a stand mixer and combine butter, sugar and mascarpone in its bowl. Beat thoroughly with the paddle attachment until fluffy. Add the vanilla, followed by egg whites. Finally, alternate adding 1/3 of the dry ingredients followed by 1/2 of the buttermilk. Repeat, then finish the batter with the last 1/3 of the dry ingredients.Fill the paper liners just over halfway with the batter and bake the cupcakes for 15–20 minutes. A toothpick should come out cleanly. Let them cool for a couple of minutes in the tin, then remove them to a rack to finish cooling completely.While the cupcakes bake and cool, make the mascarpone cream filling and espresso mixture. Pour the heavy cream into a bowl and use a hand mixer to whip it up into stiff peaks. Set it aside. Fill a small pot with water and bring it to a low simmer on the stove on low heat. Combine the sugar and egg yolks in a heat proof bowl and set it over the simmering water. Whisk it constantly while the gentle heat dissolves the sugar and cooks the egg yolks. It will only take a couple of minutes for the mixture to become pale and thick. Take it off of the heat and use the hand mixer to whip it up to be even thicker for not even a minute. Then stir in the mascarpone cheese, followed by the whipped cream until you have a luscious filling. In another small bowl, stir the hot water, espresso powder and chocolate liqueur together. Set it aside.Finally, make the frosting. Wash out the stand mixer bowl and paddle and make sure they are completely dry. Combine the butter and mascarpone in its bowl and beat them together thoroughly. Stir the hot water and espresso powder together in another bowl, then pour it into the stand mixer with the butter and mascarpone. Turn the speed to low and slowly add in the powdered sugar until you have a rich frosting. Now it’s time to assemble the cupcakes! First, use a 1 1/2 inch sharp biscuit cutter to cut out the centers of each of the cupcakes. Be careful not to go through to the bottom.Pour 1 tablespoon of the espresso and chocolate liqueur liquid into the holes you made in each of the cupcakes. It will soak right in. Then spoon the mascarpone cream filling into each of the holes, filling them generously. Transfer the frosting into a pastry bag fitted with a star tip and frost each of the cupcakes. Then take the small square of chocolate and use a micro plane to grate lots of chocolate shavings right onto the frosting. Refrigerate the cupcakes for up to a day and serve as desired!

Basic Chia Pudding
1/3 cups Chia Seeds
2 cups Unsweetened Plain Almond Milk
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
1 teaspoon Vanilla

Add all ingredients to a bowl. Whisk until combined. Store in the fridge at least 3 hours (overnight is best).Stir once more to combine before serving.

Honey Lavender Ice Cream
2 cups Heavy Cream
1 cup Half-and-half
2/3 cups Honey
2 Tablespoons Dried Edible Lavender Flowers
2 whole Large Eggs
1/8 teaspoons Salt

In a medium saucepan, pour in heavy cream, half-and-half, honey and lavender. Bring to a boil, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat and let steep for 30 minutes. This is going to let the lavender flavor really develop.Once 30 minutes is up, strain mixture through a fine-mesh sieve into a clean bowl. Clean out the saucepan and pour the mixture back in. Heat up over medium heat for 3 minutes.Toss the lavender away and clean strainer. We’ll be using it again soon.In another bowl, whisk eggs and salt. Slowly pour 1 cup of the cream mixture into the bowl while whisking to temper the eggs. Whisk the egg mixture back into the saucepan and cook over medium-low heat, stirring constantly, until the temperature reaches 175ºF.Pour the mixture through the strainer into another clean bowl and refrigerate for at least 3 hours or overnight.When the mixture is cooled, pour into your ice cream maker and let it do its thing!Once the ice cream maker has churned its little heart out, you can put your ice cream in an airtight container to freeze even more or eat it now (like I do cause I can’t wait). It’s a little more soft-serve at this point, but that’s just how I like it!Scoop up and enjoy. Your Honey Lavender Ice cream will keep for a week in the freezer.Makes about 1 quart.Recipe slightly adapted from Epicurious.

One-bowl Victoria Sponge Cake
FOR THE SPONGE CAKE:
200 grams Granulated Sugar
200 grams Unsalted Butter, Softened
4 whole Large Eggs, Room Temperature, Beaten
200 grams All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
2 Tablespoons Milk
FOR THE WHIPPED CREAM:
1 cup Whipping Cream
1 Tablespoon Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR ASSEMBLING THE CAKE:
10 pieces Fresh Strawberries, Halved
10 pieces Fresh Strawberries, Quartered
FOR THE CHOCOLATE GANACHE:
100 grams Dark Chocolate, Cut Into Chunks
1/3 cups Whipping Cream

Preheat oven to 375ºF. Grease two 8-inch cake pans and line the bottom with parchment paper.In a large bowl, beat all the cake ingredients together until you have a smooth and soft batter. Divide the batter into the prepared pans and smooth the top. Bake for about 20 minutes, until a toothpick inserted into the cake comes out clean and the cakes look golden.Let cake cool in pan for 5 minutes. Run a paring knife around the edge of the cake to loosen it from the pan. Peel off the parchment paper circles. Let cool completely on a wire rack.Beat the cream, powdered sugar and vanilla until it holds stiff peaks.To assemble, line the bottom and sides of an 8-inch springform pan with parchment paper, or line the sides of a cake ring with parchment paper. Place one layer of sponge cake in the bottom of the cake ring. Arrange the cut sides of the strawberry halves against the parchment paper on the inside of the ring. Spoon the whipped cream on the cake layer. Scatter and slightly pressed the quartered strawberries in the whipped cream. Place another sponge cake layer on top. Gently press it down firmly.Wrap the cake in plastic wrap and place it in the refrigerator to set, at least 2 hours.To prepare ganache, place chocolate and heavy cream in a medium heatproof bowl over a pot of simmering water. Stir the mixture using a wooden spoon until melted and smooth, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat and let cool slightly.Release cake from the ring. Peel off parchment paper. Pour the ganache over the chilled cake. Use a spatula to quickly push the ganache over the edges of the cake and let it drip down to create the drip effect. Garnish with more strawberries.Cover and refrigerate the cake before serving.

Creamy Coconut Rice Pudding (Vegan)
1 can (400ml Size) Coconut Milk
1/4 cups Short Grain White Rice
1 Anise Star
1 pinch Salt
1 Banana, Mashed (optional)
1/4 cans (440ml Size) Pineapples Or 1/4 Fresh Pineapple

Pour coconut milk in a pot over medium heat. Bring to a boil. When milk just starts to boil, stir in rice and reduce heat to low. Add vanilla sugar, anise star, and salt. (If desired, stir in mashed banana.)Stir occasionally and simmer over low heat for about 30 minutes until creamy. If using canned pineapple, add 3 to 4 tablespoons pineapple juice to the rice mix to give it a fruity kick.Serve with diced pineapple chunks, or blend the pineapple and layer the puree on top of rice pudding.

Blueberry Coffee Cake Bites
FOR THE CRUMB TOPPING:
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
1 Tablespoon White Sugar
1-1/2 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
2/3 cups All-purpose Flour
FOR THE COFFEE CAKE BITES:
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
3/4 cups White Sugar
1/3 cups Plain Greek Yogurt
1/3 cups Milk (I Used 2 %)
2 Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 cup Fresh Or Frozen Blueberries

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Lightly grease a 12-count mini cheesecake pan or mini muffin tin with nonstick cooking spray. Set aside.To prepare the crumb topping, add brown sugar, white sugar, cinnamon, melted butter, and flour to a medium bowl. Stir to thoroughly combine. Set aside.For the coffee cake bites, in a medium bowl, whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Set aside.In a large bowl, beat butter and sugar until light and fluffy, about 3–4 minutes. Add yogurt and milk. Beat until combined. Add eggs, one at a time, followed by vanilla extract. Beat until combined.Slowly add in flour mixture and stir until just combined. Spoon batter into prepared tins about halfway full. Sprinkle crumb mixture on top of batter.Bake for 15–20 minutes, or until toothpick inserted into middle comes out clean. Remove from oven and let cool completely.

Rich Coconut Cream Pie Pudding
1 cup Canned Coconut Milk
1-1/2 cup Whole Milk, Divided
1/4 cups Organic Cane Sugar
2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
1 Egg Yolk
3 Tablespoons Cornstarch
1 cup Unsweetened Coconut Flakes, Divided
Whipped Cream, To Serve

Add coconut milk, 1 cup whole milk, the egg yolk, sugar and vanilla to a medium saucepan. Whisk thoroughly until egg yolk is incorporated. Cook over medium low heat, whisking occasionally until it just begins to boil, about 3 to 5 minutes.In a small bowl, stir cornstarch and remianing milk until cornstarch has completely dissolved.While waiting for the milk mixture to heat, place half of the coconut flakes in a small sauté pan and toast on medium low heat until lightly browned.Once the milk mixture begins to boil, remove the pan from the heat and slowly pour in the cornstarch mixture. Whisk until combined. Return to heat and cook another couple of minutes until pudding thickens.Add the remaining untoasted coconut flakes to the pudding and whisk until combined. Remove from heat.Pour the pudding into small bowls and let cool, either in the refrigerator or on your counter. Once cooled, top the pudding with homemade whipped cream and sprinkle some of the toasted coconut over the whipped cream. Serve and enjoy!

Raspberry Chocolate Cake
FOR THE CHOCOLATE CAKE:
1-3/4 cup All-purpose Flour
2 cups Granulated Sugar
3/4 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Salt
2 whole Eggs
1 cup Buttermilk
1 cup Strong Black Coffee
1/2 cups Canola Or Vegetable Oil
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 cup Fresh Or Frozen Raspberries
FOR THE WHIPPED CHOCOLATE ICING
3/4 cups Butter, Room Temperature
3 Tablespoons Hot Black Coffee
1/2 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
3 cups Icing (powdered, Confectioners) Sugar
1/4 cups Chocolate Or White Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
Fresh Or Frozen Raspberries For Garnish

For the cake: Preheat oven to 350ºF.Grease and flour two 9-inch round cake pans. Set aside.In the bowl of a stand mixer or in a large bowl with an electric mixer, whisk flour, sugar, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder, and salt until well combined and uniform throughout. Add eggs, buttermilk, coffee, oil, and vanilla and mix thoroughly.Divide batter evenly into the cake pans. (The batter will be thin.) Dot each pan of batter with 1/2 cup of raspberries.Bake for 30 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Cool on a wire rack.For the whipped chocolate icing: In the bowl of a stand mixer or in a large bowl with an electric mixer, cream the butter and hot coffee together. Add cocoa powder, sugar, chocolate milk, and vanilla. Use the whisk attachment to whip the icing until fluffy and lighter in color, about 3–4 minutes, scraping down the sides of the bowl as necessary.Place one cake layer on a cake stand or plate and spread or pipe with half of the chocolate icing. Dot with fresh or frozen raspberries. Add the next layer and spread or pipe the remaining icing on the top. Dot with fresh or frozen raspberries. Refrigerate until ready to serve.Chocolate cake recipe from My Baking Addiction.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Raw Vegan Carob Fudge Bars
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
2 Tablespoons Carob Powder
1/4 cups Chopped Nuts And Dried Fruit

Melt coconut oil. If it’s too hot, let it cool down a bit. (I didn’t and that’s why my fudge had a few whitish parts. It was still delicious though!)Add maple syrup and start adding the carob powder little by little while whisking. Finally, add nuts and dried fruit and mix everything together.Pour the mixture into the container or the tray you are going to use. Refrigerate overnight.

Aunt Rocky’s Cranberry Pecan Cookies/Cereal (LCHF)
2 Tablespoons Dried Sugar Free Cranberries, Chopped And Reconstituted
2 drops Liquid Sucralose (or Liquid Sweetener Of Choice)
1 cup Blanched Almond Flour
1/2 cups Flax Seed Meal
1/3 cups Erythritol, Granular
1-1/2 teaspoon Cinnamon
8 Tablespoons Salted Butter, Or Coconut Oil For Dairy Free
1 whole Egg (large)
1/4 cups Pecans, Chopped

Chop dried cranberries and place in small pinch bowl. Add just enough water to cover, squeeze in liquid sucralose (or liquid sweetener of choice), and soak for about 20 minutes. This reconstitutes and sweetens the cranberries. Otherwise, they are tough and very tart. Drain water before adding the cranberries to the cookie batter.While cranberries are sitting, preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a large baking sheet with parchment and set aside.In a medium mixing bowl, whisk almond flour, flax meal, sweetener and cinnamon until lumps in the almond flour are broken up. Make a well in the center, pour in the melted butter and egg, mix well with whisk. Fold in pecans and drained cranberries.Using a 1-tablespoon cookie scoop, drop cookies onto baking sheet. They won’t spread, so you can put them fairly close together. Press cookies down slightly to flatten tops.Bake 15–18 minutes, or until surface looks dry, and edges are brown. Transfer to large cooling rack. Cookies will crisp up when they cool. For an even crisper cookie, leave on cooling rack overnight.Nutritional information (estimates are per serving based on exact ingredients I used, calculated with a free online recipe analyzer): Calories 63, Total Fat 6 g, Saturated Fat 2 g, Sodium 26 mg, Potassium 6 mg, Total Carbohydrate 1.7 g, Dietary Fiber 1.1 g, Net Carbs 0.6 g, Sugars 0 g, Protein 1 g. Macros: 87% fat, 6% protein, 6% net carbs.© November 18, 2016 Roxana Lopez for Aunt Rocky’sFor more low carb/keto recipes and cooking tips, look for Aunt Rocky’s Low Carb Recipes Group on Facebook.

Pretzel Crust Strawberry Pie
1 cup Crushed Pretzels
1 cup Crushed Vanilla Wafer Cookies
1/3 cups Melted Butter
2 pints Strawberries
1-1/4 cup Sugar
2-1/2 Tablespoons Cornstarch
1-1/2 cup Water
1 box (3 Oz. Size) Strawberry Gelatin (Jello)
Whipped Topping, For Decoration

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Prepare pie crust by mixing pretzels and vanilla wafers with melted butter. Press into a pie pan. Bake in preheated oven for 12 minutes and allow to cool.Cut the stems off strawberries and place stem side down on the cooled pie crust.In a small pot, stir sugar and cornstarch. Add water and bring to a boil. Simmer, stirring constantly, until thickened. Remove from heat, add gelatin and stir until dissolved.Pour mixture over strawberries. Refrigerate until set. Decorate with whipped topping.

Ginger Muffins
2 Tablespoons Fresh Ginger, Grated
50 milliliters Fresh Orange Juice
200 grams White Sugar, Divided
2 Tablespoons Orange, Zest Grated
3 Eggs
250 milliliters Buttermilk
350 grams Flour
1 pinch Salt
1 teaspoon Baking Powder

Prepare a saucepan. Add ginger, orange juice, and stir in 1/4 of the sugar. Cook for a few minutes, until sugar is completely melted. Turn off heat, stir in orange zest, and set aside.In a bowl, mix eggs with remaining sugar until it doubles its volume. Add buttermilk and mix again.Blend flour with salt and baking powder, and gradually add the mixture to the eggs, mixing after each batch. Now add the ginger mixture.Heat oven to 200ºC (390ºF). Fill muffin tray 2/3 full and bake for about 15–20 minutes.

Vegan Gluten-Free Jam-Filled Cookies
4 Tablespoons Milk Of Your Choice (or Water)
2 Tablespoons Peanut Butter
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
1/4 cups Oat Flour
1/4 cups Rolled Oats
1/4 cups Desiccated Coconut
1/4 cups Coconut Flakes
4 Tablespoons Jam

Preheat the oven to 180°C (350°F).Combine milk with peanut butter and maple syrup, then add dry ingredients and mix everything well.Take spoonfuls of the mixture, roll them into little balls and press a thumbprint into the center of each ball; make sure you don’t go all the way down. Fill each cookie with jam. The best ways is to use a coffee spoon.Put them on a tray covered with baking paper and bake for about 15 minutes.

Honey Spice Cake
FOR THE HONEY SPICE CAKE:
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Ground Ginger
1 teaspoon Freshly Grated Nutmeg
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Canola Oil
1/2 cups Honey
1 whole Large Egg, Room Temperature
1/2 whole Vanilla Bean
1 cup Sour Cream, Room Temperature
FOR THE HONEY CARAMEL:
1/4 cups Honey
1/2 sticks Unsalted Butter
1/4 cups Brown Sugar
2 Tablespoons Heavy Cream
FOR THE CREAM CHEESE FROSTING:
1 package (8 Oz. Size) Cream Cheese, Softened
1 stick Unsalted Butter, Softened
1 cup Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

To prepare cake, preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease two 8-inch cake pans and line bottoms with parchment paper. Set aside.In a large bowl, mix flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, ground cinnamon, ground ginger and nutmeg.In a standing mixer with a paddle attachment, beat both sugars, oil, honey and egg. Scrape in seeds from the vanilla bean. Continue beating until mixture becomes light in color. Add sour cream and continue mixing until incorporated.With the mixer on low speed, add the flour mixture and mix until just blended.Divide batter evenly among the prepared cake pans. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes. Remove from oven and let cakes cool completely.Run a paring knife around the edge of the cake to loosen it from the pan. Peel off the parchment paper circles.To prepare honey caramel, cook honey, butter and sugar in a saucepan on medium-high heat while stirring constantly. Bring the mixture to a boil for 2 minutes. Remove from heat. Mix in heavy cream thoroughly. Let it cool to lukewarm.To prepare cream cheese frosting, place cream cheese and butter in a mixing bowl. Beat until soft and well incorporated. Add powder sugar and vanilla. Continue beating until light and fluffy.To assemble the cake, sandwich cake layers with the cream cheese frosting. Top the cake top with another layer of frosting. Smear the excess frosting around the sides of the cake to create the look of a naked cake.Slowly spoon the honey caramel over the top of the cake. Cover and refrigerate the cake. Leave cake in room temperature for at least 1 hour before serving.

No-Bake Blackberry Yogurt Pie
1 whole 9 Inch Graham Cracker Crust
2 Tablespoons Cold Water
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice
1-1/2 teaspoon Unflavored Gelatin
4 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened
3 containers (6 Oz. Size) Blackberry Yogurt
1 cup Whipped Topping, Such As Cool Whip, Plus Additional For Topping
1 cup Fresh Blackberries

In a saucepan, add water and lemon juice. Sprinkle in gelatin. Heat on low until dissolved. Let it cool for about 5 minutesIn a mixing bowl, beat cream cheese until smooth. Add yogurt. Pour in gelatin mixture. Beat until combined. Fold in whipped topping.Spoon evenly into pie crust. If desired, top with additional whipped topping. Garnish with fresh blackberries.Refrigerate for 2 hours before serving.

Samoa Cookie Pie
1 stick Butter, Melted And Cooled
1 whole Egg
1/2 cups Dark Brown Sugar
1 teaspoon Coconut Extract
1/2 teaspoons Cocoa Powder
1 pinch Salt
1-1/4 cup All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 cup Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips, Divided
2 cups Shredded Coconut
10 Tablespoons Sweetened, Condensed Milk
1/2 cups Salted Caramel Sauce

Preheat oven to 350ºF and liberally spray a 9-inch pie plate.Combine melted butter, egg, sugar, coconut extract, cocoa powder, and salt in a large mixing bowl and stir it all together. Continue to stir while you gradually add the flour. Stir flour in just until it disappears; don’t over-mix it. Press into an even layer in the greased pie pan and bake for about 10–12 minutes. It will still be a little wet and not baked through—that’s ok.Take the crust out when it is done and layer the pie. First, sprinkle 1 cup of the chocolate chips in an even layer. They will start to melt right away. Follow that with a layer of coconut. Then evenly distribute the sweetened condensed milk, followed by caramel sauce. Put the pie back into the oven for about 25 minutes. It should be slightly crisp around the edges.Once it is done, put the remaining chocolate chips in a microwave safe bowl and melt them completely. It takes 1 to 1 1/2 minutes. Use a spoon to drizzle thick chocolate stripes down the length of the pie. Let the finished pie cool and harden completely for at least 4–5 hours. You could even chill it in the refrigerator for a couple of hours to help speed it along, but serve it at room temperature. Enjoy!

Coffee Cake with Baileys Irish Cream
FOR GREASING THE PAN:
3 teaspoons Butter, Softened
FOR THE CAKE:
3/4 cups Butter, Softened
1-1/4 cup Sugar
3 cups Flour
1-1/4 cup Sour Cream
1/2 cups Bailey's Irish Cream
3 Eggs, Beaten
1-1/2 teaspoon Double-acting Baking Powder
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Soda
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE FILLING AND TOPPING:
1-1/2 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
3/4 cups Sugar

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease the angel food cake pan with butter and set aside.For the cake, in a large mixing bowl, add butter and sugar. Beat until light and fluffy.To the mixing bowl, add flour, sour cream, Irish cream, eggs, baking powder, baking soda, and vanilla. Beat on low speed until blended. Then beat for 3 more minutes.In the angel food cake pan, pour ½ of the batter to form the first layer. Using a spatula or spoon, level off the batter (in the pan). Set aside for a moment.In a separate small bowl, mix together the cinnamon and sugar for the filling and topping. With a spoon, sprinkle half of the cinnamon and sugar mixture evenly on top of the batter in the pan. Pour the remaining batter into the pan to form the second layer. Level the batter with a spatula or spoon. Sprinkle the remaining cinnamon and sugar mixture evenly over the top of the second dough layer (this will be the top of the cake).Bake for 55 to 60 minutes or until a toothpick comes out mostly clean from the middle of the cake. This cake tends to dry out so it’s best to leave it a little moist. Let the cake cool completely.After the cake has cooled, remove cake from the outer part of the pan by running a long thin-bladed knife between the cake and the pan (including the funnel area). Hold on to the middle funnel section of the pan and pull it from the outer part of the pan. To remove the cake from the bottom and funnel part of the pan, run a long thin-bladed knife between the bottom of the cake and the pan. Then carefully lift the cake from the pan on to a large flat plate or cutting surface.Serve the cake as is, topped with softened butter, or topped with Bailey’s Irish Cream (for the adults only).

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

The Grey Stuff
3 cups Full-Fat Coconut Cream (about 3 Cans, The Thick White Portion Only), Chilled
2/3 cups Coconut Sugar
1-1/2 Tablespoon Hershey’s Dark Cocoa Or Black Cocoa Powder
2 Tablespoons Arrowroot Powder
2 Tablespoons Gluten-Free Flour, Or Flour Of Choice
2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
1 teaspoon Liquid Stevia Extract

Place coconut cans in the freezer for about 2 hours or the fridge overnight.In a large bowl, beat coconut cream with coconut sugar until fluffy and sweetener has dissolved. Add the rest of the ingredients. For piping this grey stuff, you can add more flour to your desired consistency. Place in the freezer to re-chill, about 5 minutes.Scoop into a piping bag or plastic bag and pipe into dishes. Store in the fridge for up to 5 days or freeze it for up to 2 weeks.Note: For a dairy version using heavy whipping cream in place of the coconut cream, please decrease the coconut sugar to 1/2 cup and omit the arrowroot powder and flour. Whip to firm peaks and follow rest of directions as stated.

Red Velvet Ice Cream Float
FOR THE RED VELVET MIXTURE:
2 cups 100% Pomegranate Juice
2 Tablespoons Double Chocolate Syrup
FOR THE FLOAT:
6 Scoops Vanilla Ice Cream
Red Velvet Mixture
1 cup Whipped Cream Or Cool Whip Topping
1/2 teaspoons Candy Sprinkles (Red And Pink-Based Colors)

For the red velvet mixture: In a large measuring cup with a pouring spout, add the pomegranate juice and chocolate syrup. Stir together until incorporated.For the float: In serving glasses, add ice cream. Pour red velvet mixture as close to the inside edge of the glass as possible so that the scoops of ice cream are still showing (if the glasses are similar to the shape of a martini glass). Top with whipped cream or Cool Whip topping and garnish with candy sprinkles. Serve right away.

Rustic Bumble Berry Crumble Crisp
FOR THE BERRY FILLING:
125 grams Raspberries
250 grams Strawberries
125 grams Blueberries
1 Tablespoon Blackberry Jam (sugar Free)
FOR THE CRUMBLE CRISP:
1-1/2 cup Cake Flour
1/2 cups Rolled Oats
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
2 Tablespoons Brown Sugar
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
6 Tablespoons Butter, Softened
11 Tablespoons Milk
1 Tablespoon Honey
1 Egg Yolk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Essence

For the berry filling: Wash and roughly chop the strawberries and raspberries. Leave blueberries whole. Mix berries together in a bowl with the blackberry jam. Spoon into a baking dish and set aside.For the crumble crisp: Preheat oven to 170ºC (340ºF).In a large bowl, sieve cake flour. Stir in oats, ground cinnamon, sugar, baking powder and salt. Rub in the butter. Stir in the milk, honey, egg yolk and vanilla essence.Dollop the crumble crisp onto the berries with a large spoon, leaving some gaps for venting. You can be quite rustic about it!Bake in the centre of the oven for about 30 minutes, until the crumble crisp becomes golden on the outside and is cakey towards the berries.Cool for about 15 minutes before serving. Serve with whipped cream or ice cream.

Aunt Rocky’s Peanut Butter Raisin Cookies (LCHF)
1/2 cups Skippy Chunky Natural Peanut Butter
1/2 cups Walden Farms Cinnamon Raisin Peanut Butter Spread (See Note)
1 whole Egg (large)
1/3 cups Just Like Sugar Brown (See Note)
1/3 cups Granular Erythritol (or Equivalent Bulk Sweetener)
3 Tablespoons Hoosier Hill Peanut Butter Powder (See Note)
1 teaspoon Rumford Baking Powder (or Other Gluten Free)
1/4 teaspoons Ginger Powder
1 dash Salt

Preheat oven to 325ºF. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment or silicone liners, set aside.In a medium bowl, mix all wet ingredients until smooth and creamy (peanut butter, Waldens spread, and egg).In a small bowl, mix the dry ingredients enough to break up any lumps. Add dry ingredients to wet ingredients, stir until well combined.Spoon by 1-tablespoon cookie scoop at least 1 inch apart onto baking sheets to allow for spreading a little.For a softer cookie, bake 25 minutes, or until bottoms just begin to brown.Transfer to cooling rack. Cookies will become firm when cool, with a soft, chewy inside.Notes: If you can’t get the Walden Farms spread, use peanut butter and add 2 teaspoons sugar free maple syrup and 1 teaspoon. vanilla extract. Omit the ginger. The carbs will be slightly higher, and the flavor will be different, but the cookies will work. Hoosier Hill peanut butter powder is not the same as PB2, or other products with added sugar and other ingredients. If you don’t have peanut flour, use 2 tablespoons coconut flour instead. Let batter rest 20 minutes before scooping so it thickens a bit more. I tried using Sukrin Gold with this cookie, but it does not work as well. The cookie flattens and spreads more, and the flavor is not as nice as the Just Like Sugar. If that’s what you have, though, use a little less than the 1/3 cup in the recipe, and taste before adding any more. The Sukrin Gold tends to be sweeter than the Just Like Sugar. If you use Sukrin, count 1 net carb per cookie.Nutritional information (estimates are per serving based on exact ingredients I used, calculated with a free online recipe analyzer); Calories 28, Total Fat 2 g, Saturated Fat 1 g, Sodium 43 mg, Potassium 2 mg, Total Carbohydrate 2 g, Dietary Fiber 1.5 g, Net Carbs 0.5g, Sugars 0 g, Protein 1 g. Macros: 70% fats, 15% protein, 15% net carbs. (Macros on individual cookies are skewed due to rounding. For 2 cookies, macros are: 73% fat, 20% protein, 7% carbs.)© October 11, 2016 Roxana Lopez for Aunt Rocky’sFor more low carb/keto recipes and cooking tips, look for Aunt Rocky’s Low Carb Recipes Group on Facebook.

Baked Carob Oatmeal Bars (Gluten-Free, Dairy-Free, Chocolate-Free)
FOR THE CRUST:
1/4 cups Coconut Oil (not Melted)
1 cup Oat Flour
3 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
FOR THE FILLING:
12 whole Dates
3 whole Eggs
5 Tablespoons Carob Powder

Pre-soak your dates in water if you need to. Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F).With a fork, mix hard coconut oil with oat flour and maple syrup. Transfer crust mixture to a tray and press down. Bake for about 10 minutes.Take dates out of water and mash into a paste. Add date paste to the eggs. Add carob powder little by little while whisking.Take the crust out of the oven and give it a few minutes to cool slightly. Pour filling over and bake until evenly baked, about 15–20 minutes. Let cool and enjoy!

Orange Creamsicle Tiramisu
FOR THE ORANGE SYRUP
1 cup Freshly Squeezed Orange Juice
2 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar
2 Tablespoons Marsala Wine Or Orange Liqueur
FOR THE TIRAMISU:
3 Egg Yolks
1/3 cups Granulated Sugar
4 Tablespoons Freshly Squeezed Orange Juice
1 cup Heavy Cream
1 cup Mascarpone Cheese
24 pieces Ladyfingers Or Savoirdi Biscuits

For the orange syrup: In an small bowl, combine orange juice, sugar and marsala or orange liqueur. Mix until sugar is completely dissolved and set aside.For the filling, place egg yolks, sugar, and orange juice in a medium heatproof bowl and set over a bain marie (place the heatproof bowl over a saucepan of simmering water making sure the bowl is not touching the water). Whisk constantly until mixture has a thick, ribbony consistency and is light yellow in color, about 7 to 9 minutes. Remove from heat and set aside to cool slightly, about 10–15 minutes.Whisk heavy cream with a hand or standing mixer until stiff peaks form. Set aside.In another bowl, mix mascarpone cheese with the back of a spoon of wire whisk until soft and creamy. Add the cooled egg yolk mixture to the mascarpone mixture and combine well. Add the whipped cream to the egg yolk and mascarpone mixture and gently fold it in until it is well incorporated.Dip ladyfingers very quickly (just a couple of seconds) into the orange syrup and place them in one layer in a 8 x8 inch (20 x 20 cm) baking dish. If necessary, break a few ladyfingers in order to maybe a tightly fitting later.Spoon half of the filling over the ladyfingers. Repeat with a second layer of the orange syrup dipped ladyfingers, then the rest of the filling. Cover and refrigerate overnight or at least 2 to 3 hours.Serve cold topped with chopped pistachios and sliced orange slices.For individual servings: Spoon a dollop of the filling in the bottom of you glass or bowl. Break the ladyfinger into thirds and soak them briefly in the orange syrup and place them on top of the filling mixture. Repeat with layering filling and ladyfingers, creating two to three layers. To serve, top each glass with chopped pistachios and a twisted orange slice.

Mini Grasshopper Pies
FOR THE CRUST:
1-1/2 cup Whole Almonds
1/4 cups Dark Cocoa Powder
1/2 cups Pitted Dates
1/8 teaspoons Fine Sea Salt
1/4 cups Pure Maple Syrup
FOR THE FILLING:
1/2 cups Raw Cashews
1/4 cups Pure Maple Syrup
1 container (6 Oz. Size) Coconut Dream Plain Non-dairy Yogurt
1/4 cups Coconut Oil, Melted And Cooled
1/2 cups Packed Fresh Mint Leaves
2 teaspoons Matcha Powder
FOR THE PEPPERMINT TOPPING:
1 can (about 13 Oz. Size) Coconut Cream, Chilled At Least 2 Hours
2 teaspoons Pure Maple Syrup
1/4 teaspoons Peppermint Extract
Chocolate Shavings For Garnish
Fresh Mint For Garnish

Start by pouring boiling hot water over the raw cashews (for the filling) and letting set for 1 hour to soften.To make the crust, add almonds, cocoa powder, dates, and sea salt into the bowl of a food processor and process until almonds are finely ground. Add pure maple syrup and process again until mixture clumps together.Divide mixture among several 4-ounce jars or whatever size mason jars you have. Try to pack the crust gently so it’s easier to eat later once it’s hardened a bit.To make the filling, add drained soaked cashews into a kitchen blender, along with pure maple syrup, non-dairy yogurt, and melted coconut oil. Blend for 2–3 minutes until very smooth, scraping down the sides of the blender as needed.Add fresh mint leaves and matcha powder to the blender and blend again until mint is broken down into very tiny pieces. Place a fine mesh strainer over a large mixing bowl and pour in the filling from the blender. Use a silicon spatula or spoon to press the mixture through the strainer spatula, removing any pieces of mint leaves.Pour the filling into the jars over the crust. Place into the refrigerator and chill the jars until filling is firm and set, about 1 hour.To make the whipped peppermint topping, remove hardened coconut cream from a refrigerated can of full fat coconut milk, scraping the top creamy part into a large bowl. Add pure maple syrup and peppermint extract and whip using a hand blender or stand mixer until the mixture holds soft peaks.Once the mint filling for the grasshopper pies is firm, remove from the refrigerator. Top each with a dollop of the peppermint whipped cream and some fresh chocolate shavings and fresh mint.

Granola Cookies
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Salt
1 stick Unsalted Butter, Softened
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
1 whole Large Egg, Room Temperature
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1-1/2 cup Granola

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.In a bowl, sift flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt.In a standing mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream butter and both sugars until light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Beat in egg until thoroughly incorporated. Mix in vanilla until well combined.On low speed, add flour mixture until just combined. Fold in granola by hand.Form the dough into tablespoon-sized balls place onto the prepared baking sheets. Leave 1 inch in between cookies.Bake for 13 to 15 minutes until edges are slightly brown. Transfer to wire rack and cool completely.

Hello Dolly Cookies
1-1/2 cup Graham Cracker Crumbs
1/2 cups Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 cups Butter, Softened
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
1-1/3 cup Shredded Coconut
1-1/2 cup Bittersweet Chocolate Chips
1 cup Butterscotch Chips

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Mix graham cracker crumbs, flour, and baking powder.In the bowl of a mixer, beat butter and condensed milk until smooth. Add cracker mixture, and blend well. Take bowl off the mixer and stir in coconut, butterscotch and chocolate chips (it’s easier this way).Line cookie trays with parchment paper. Scoop 1 tablespoon of the dough (or chips barely held together with dough) onto the tray. Bake for 11 minutes. The cookies will be brown around the edges and pale on the top.Now here is the specific reason for the parchment paper: when your cookies come out of the oven, carefully lift a corner of the paper and slide the paper and the cookies onto your counter or a cooling rack. The cookies are very soft when they come out, and doing it this way keeps you from leaving them on the tray and overcooking the bottoms, or fighting to keep them together while lifting them off with a spatula.Enjoy!

Hot Water Apple Pie
3 quarts Water (or Apple Cider)
4-1/2 pounds Golden Delicious Apples, Peeled, Cored, And Cut Into 1/4-inch Slices
10 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar
4 Tablespoons Cornstarch
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Fine Salt
2 whole Pie Crusts
2 Tablespoons Butter, Cut Into Cubes
2 Tablespoons Milk Or Cream
1 Tablespoon Turbinado Sugar For Sprinkling (or Granulated Sugar)

Preheat oven to 425ºF and place rack in bottom center position.Bring water or apple cider to a boil and pour over apple slices; soak 10 minutes, then drain another 10 minutes. Add sugar, cornstarch, cinnamon, and salt to the apples; mix well to combine.Roll half of the pie crusts and line pie plate(s). Pour apples into the crust-lined pie plate(s) and add cubed butter. Roll remaining pie crust(s) and place on top; crimp edges to seal. Brush top crust with milk or cream and sprinkle liberally with turbinado sugar.Place pie plate(s) on rimmed baking sheet and bake for 55–60 minutes for a 9-inch pie, 30–35 minutes for 4-inch pies, 40–45 minutes for 5-inch pies.Recipe adapted from Serious Eats.

Chocolate Meringue Pie
FOR THE MERINGUE:
4 Egg Whites
1/2 teaspoons Cream Of Tartar
1/3 cups Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla
FOR THE FILLING:
3 Tablespoons Dark Cocoa Powder (rounded Tablespoons)
3 Tablespoons Flour (rounded Tablespoons)
1 cup Sugar
4 Egg Yolks
Pinch Of Salt
2 cups Whole Milk
1/4 cups White Chocolate Chips
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1/2 sticks Butter
FOR ASSEMBLING THE PIE:
1 Pre-baked Pie Crust
Extra Cocoa And Chocolate Shavings For Garnish

Preheat oven to 375ºF.For the meringue, separate egg whites from the egg yolks. (Set aside the egg yolks.) The egg whites should be room temperature before beginning to prepare the meringue. Beat egg whites in a stand mixer or by hand if you prefer, until soft peaks form (the meringue will stand, but will still look a little frothy). Add the cream of tartar, sugar, and vanilla to the egg whites while continuing to beat the egg whites. Continue to beating until stiff peaks form.For the filling, mix cocoa, flour, and sugar in a medium-sized sauce pan. In a separate bowl, whisk egg yolks, salt, and milk. Stir the wet mixture into the dry ingredients in the saucepan. Cook at medium heat until thick, about 5 minutes. Stir in chocolate chips, vanilla, and butter.Pour into pre-baked pie crust. Gently mound the meringue over hot filling, being careful not to leave any gaps between the meringue and crust. Bake until meringue is golden brown. Be careful not to overcook the meringue.Remove the pie from the oven and allow to cool. Once the pie is cool, tent tin foil over the top of the pie and place in the refrigerator for up to 12 hours. Serve garnished with cocoa powder and chocolate shavings.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Lemon Cream Pie Ice Cream
FOR THE GRAHAM CRACKER CRUST:
1 cup Graham Cracker Crumbs (about 9 Whole Graham Crackers, If You’re Grinding Your Own)
1 Tablespoon Granulated Sugar
4 Tablespoons Butter, Melted
FOR THE SWISS MERINGUE:
2 Large Egg Whites
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
FOR THE ICE CREAM:
1 pint Heavy Whipping Cream
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
6 Tablespoons Fresh Lemon Juice
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 teaspoons Freshly Grated Lemon Zest

Preheat oven to 325°F. Line an 8×8 baking dish with foil and spray lightly with cooking spray; set aside.Add graham cracker crumbs and sugar to the bowl of a food processor and pulse briefly to combine.Turn on processor and slowly pour in melted butter (through special opening for pouring) and mix until thoroughly combined. You may have to stop and scrape the sides of the bowl a couple of times to ensure the butter is mixed in properly.Press mixture across the bottom of the pan (it doesn’t have to be perfectly even). Bake for 12 minutes, or until firm and a bit crisp (you want the crust to be a bit crispier than usual). Remove crust from oven and place the dish on a wire rack to cool.While crust is cooling, make meringue.In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, briefly whisk egg whites and sugar to combine. Place the bowl over a small pan of simmering water, making sure the bowl does not directly touch the water, and whisk constantly until the mixture reaches 160°F. or until sugar is completely dissolved and mixture is warm to the touch, about 3–5 minutes.Transfer bowl back to mixer and whisk on high until stiff peaks form and mixture is thick and glossy, about 5 minutes. Transfer meringue to a cookie sheet and spread into a rough circle that is about 9 to 10 inches round.Using a kitchen torch, torch the top of the meringue to desired toastiness, making sure to avoid touching the pan with the flame as little as possible. (See note below.) Set aside.Wash the bowl and whisk attachment.For the ice cream: Break crust into small chunks/crumbles and set aside.In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, whisk heavy whipping cream until it reaches stiff peaks.In a large bowl using a rubber spatula, stir sweetened condensed milk, lemon juice, and vanilla. Carefully fold in whipped cream, lemon zest, and crust crumbles. Pour into a freezer safe container (I use a 9 x 4 ½ inch loaf pan).Dollop meringue on top and swirl with a knife to incorporate. Cover tightly with foil and freeze 4–8 hours, or until firm.Note: If you do not have a kitchen torch, you might could place the pan under the broiler briefly to brown. If you do this, please keep a very close eye on it—I wouldn’t leave it in longer than 30 seconds. You could also skip this step—it will be just as tasty, I assure you! It’s seriously not necessary.

Delicious Vegan Fudgy Bark
50 grams Dark Chocolate (vegan)
2 Tablespoons Tahini
1 teaspoon Cocoa Butter
1/2 teaspoons Powdered Sugar
1/4 cups Nuts, Seeds, Coconut, Dried Fruit, For Decoration

Melt chocolate and mix it with the tahini. Pour mixture into a container.Melt the cocoa butter and add powdered sugar. Pour little dots over the dark chocolate while it’s still melted, then take a toothpick and drag it through the dots to create the hearts.Decorate with desiccated coconut, nuts, seeds and dried fruit. Put in the freezer until bark has hardened.

Aunt Rocky’s Dark Chocolate Macadamia Clusters
2 ounces, fluid Unsweetened Bakers Chocolate, Chopped Into Small Pieces And Melted
1-1/2 teaspoon Coconut Oil, Melted
2-1/2 Tablespoons Swerve Confectioners (or Powdered Sweetener Of Choice)
3 ounces, weight Macadamia Nuts, Halved
1/4 Tablespoons Sea Salt For Topping (optional)

Line a small baking sheet with waxed or parchment paper. Set aside.In small mixing bowl, melt chopped chocolate and coconut oil in microwave, 45 seconds to a minute, depending on the size of the chocolate pieces. Stir well until mixture is smooth.Add powdered erythritol and stir until smooth again. Fold in nuts.Drop by heaping teaspoons onto lined cookie sheet. Sprinkle a small amount of sea salt lightly on each cluster.Refrigerate or freeze just until chocolate is set. Candies will stay set, and should dry out if left on counter uncovered for a couple of hours. Once dry, store in airtight container away from heat.Tip: Try flavor variations, such as adding a little cinnamon oil, red pepper flakes, different nuts, mint extract.Nutritional information (estimates are per serving based on exact ingredients I used, calculated with a free online recipe analyzer): Calories 60, Total Fat 6 g, Saturated Fat 2 g, Sodium 52 mg, Potassium 15 mg, Total Carbohydrate 2 g, Dietary Fiber 1 g, Net Carbs 1 g, Sugars 0 g, Protein 1 g. Macros: 87% fat, 7% protein, 6% carbs.© March 5, 2017 Roxana Lopez for Aunt Rocky’sFor more low carb/keto recipes and cooking tips, look for Aunt Rocky’s Low Carb Recipes Group on Facebook.Update (April 6, 2017): Feedback was that chocolate was seizing up when mixed with the confectioners Swerve. I changed the ratios a little bit to assure a smoother chocolate finish (reduced Swerve from 3 tablespoons to 2 1/2 tablespoons and increased coconut oil from 1 teaspoon to 1 1/2 teaspoon). The candies are still sweet enough, and can still set up on waxed paper. If you have trouble, just play with the amount of coconut oil used.

Amazing Banana Ice Cream
5 Ripe Bananas
16 ounces, fluid Heavy Cream
3/4 cups Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract

In a food processor, puree bananas until smooth.Whip heavy cream with powdered sugar and vanilla extract until it reaches soft peaks. Combine the whipped cream and banana pure, mix well.Transfer the mixture into ice cream maker and process according to manufacturer’s instructions. Put the ice cream into a food container, cover with a lid and freeze for at least 3 hours before serving.

Avocado Chocolate Mousse
6 Dried Dates, Pitted
1 Tablespoon Maple Syrup
10 Tablespoons Water
1 Avocado, Medium
3 teaspoons Cocoa Powder
1/2 cups Raspberries (other Berries Are Fine Too Of Course)

Roughly chop the dates into small pieces. Add chopped dates, maple syrup and water into a food processor and blend until smooth.Peel and add avocado and cocoa. The easiest way to peel an avocado is to cut it in half, make a nick on each side and peel it like a banana. Blend again until creamy.Taste the mousse, and if you’d like it a little sweeter, add more maple syrup and quickly blend again.Garnish with berries of your choice, such as raspberries. Leave it in the fridge for an hour or so to cool.

Kourambiethes (Greek Butter Cookies)
1 cup Butter
1-1/4 cup Powdered Sugar, Divided
1 whole Egg
1 ounce, fluid Whiskey
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla
1 teaspoon Almond Extract
3-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda

Heat oven to 350ºF.Beat butter and 1/4 cup powdered sugar until light and fluffy, about 3 to 4 minutes.Beat in egg. Add whiskey, vanilla and almond extract. Beat well. Sift flour, baking powder and baking soda. Add to mixture; stir in, do not beat. Dough should be soft but not sticky.Pinch off 1-inch balls of dough and shape into crescents. Place on an ungreased cookie sheet and bake for 10–12 minutes or until bottom is lightly browned.Place cookies on wire rack and let cool for about 5 to 6 minutes. Roll in remaining powdered sugar.This easy, traditional Greek recipe makes 3 dozen cookies.

No-Bake Biscuit Salami
30 grams Butter
200 milliliters Heavy Cream
100 grams Dark Chocolate Pieces
1 Tablespoon Rum
1 teaspoon Instant Coffee
100 grams Petit Beurre Biscuits, Pieces
2 Tablespoons Roasted Walnuts, Ground
1 Tablespoon Roasted Hazelnuts ( Ground)

In a saucepan, melt butter. Add heavy cream and bring to a boil.In a bowl, add chocolate, rum, and instant coffee. Pour in the hot cream. Wait 2 minutes and then blend the mixture until chocolate is completely melted. Stir in the biscuits, walnuts and hazelnuts, until well combined.Line a small pan with plastic and pour the mixture in. Refrigerate for at least 4 hours.

Lemon Chiffon Cake with Lemon Curd Filling and Toasted Meringue Frosting
FOR THE LEMON CURD:
1 Tablespoon Lemon Zest
1-1/2 cup Granulated Sugar
1 stick Unsalted Butter, Softened
4 whole Eggs
1/2 cups Lemon Juice
1/2 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE LEMON CHIFFON CAKE
1-1/4 cup Cake Flour
1/2 Tablespoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
3 whole Eggs, Separated, Room Temperature
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar, Divided
1/4 cups Canola Oil
1 Tablespoon Lemon Zest
FOR THE TOASTED MERINGUE FROSTING:
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
3 Large Egg Whites
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Water

To prepare lemon curd, mix lemon zest and sugar with a fork.In a large bowl, cream butter. Add sugar mixture and beat together. Add eggs, lemon juice and salt and mix together until thoroughly combined.Pour mixture into a pan and cook over low heat while stirring constantly for about 10 to 15 minutes or until the curd starts to thicken and coat the back of a wooden spoon. Remove from heat. Push the lemon curd through the sieve and into a bowl to make it super smooth. Chill for at least 1 hour.To prepare the cake, preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease two 5-inch cake pans, and line bottoms with parchment paper.In a large bowl, sift flour, baking powder and salt. Set aside.In a bowl of a standing mixer with a whisk attachment, beat egg whites on medium speed until foamy. Add 2 tablespoons sugar and continue beating until stiff peaks form. Scrape the meringue in another bowl. Set aside.In the same bowl, mix flour mixture, egg yolks, oil and lemon zest and remaining sugar until smooth, about 3 minutes.Fold in half of the meringue into the batter until almost combined. Then fold in the rest of the meringue into the batter until just incorporated. Evenly distribute the batter into the prepared cake pans and spread evenly.Bake 18 to 20 minutes or until wooden pick inserted in cake comes out clean. Cool in pan on wire rack for about 10 minutes before inverting on rack. Let cool completely. Slice cake layers horizontally to make four cake layers.To assemble the cake, place one cake layer on a greased baking sheet. Spread 1/3 cup of the lemon curd. Place another cake layer on top, and gently press down a little bit. Continue until the last cake layer is placed. Refrigerate the cake until you are ready to frost and serve, preferably on the same day.To prepare frosting, in a large heatproof bowl, combine sugar and egg whites. Using a handheld electric mixer, beat on high speed until foamy for 1 minute. Set bowl over a pan of barely simmering water. Beat on high speed until the mixture is hot to touch.Remove from heat, stir in vanilla and water, and continue whipping for another 10 minutes until stiff and glossy peaks form.Smear the meringue frosting thickly on the top and sides of the cake. Using a small metal spatula to create swoops and peaks. Using a kitchen torch, lightly brown the frosting.Leave it at room temperature and serve the cake the same day, as over time the frosting will become grainy.

Lime Pound Cake
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
3/4 cups Butter
1-1/4 cup Sugar
4 whole Eggs
1 Tablespoon Lime Zest
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1/2 cups Plain Greek Yogurt
1/4 cups Fresh Lime Juice
1/2 cups Powdered Sugar, Divided

Heat oven to 325ºF. Grease and flour a 10-inch bundt pan.In a medium bowl, combine flour, baking powder and baking soda.In a large bowl, beat butter with sugar on low speed until well-blended. Increase to high speed and beat until light, about 3–4 minutes. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in lime zest and vanilla.On low speed, alternately beat in flour and Greek yogurt.Spoon batter into prepared pan and bake about 30–35 minutes or until toothpick inserted near center comes out clean.With a knife, loosen cake from sides of pan. Cool in pan on rack for 10 minutes. Remove cake from pan by quickly inverting pan on serving plate.For the lime glaze, mix lime juice with 1/4 cup powdered sugar. Whisk together and brush over top of warm cake. Sift remaining powdered sugar over top of cake.

Homemade Raw Vegan Almond Joy
1 Tablespoon Coconut Oil
3 Tablespoons Coconut Cream
3 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
2 Tablespoons Almond Butter
1/2 cups Desiccated Coconut
7 whole Almonds
1/2 cups Melted Chocolate

Mix coconut oil with coconut cream and maple syrup. Add almond butter and mix again. Lastly, add desiccated coconut cream and mix everything together.Leave the mixture in the fridge for a while until it’s easier to work with.Shape the bars by portioning out equal parts of the mixture.When bars are ready, add an almond on top of each bar. You should be able to make 6 to 8 bars, depending on their size. Freeze the bars for 30–40 minutes.Melt the chocolate and cover each bar. Once the first coating has dried, drizzle more melted chocolate for decoration.Refrigerate until chocolate has hardened.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

White Chocolate Chip and Walnut Matcha Cookies
1 cup Butter, Room Temperature
3/4 cups White Sugar
3/4 cups Brown Sugar
2-1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
2 Tablespoons Matcha
2 Eggs, Medium Sized
2-1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 cup Walnuts
1-1/2 cup White Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350ºF.In a large bowl, cream butter and both sugars using a hand mixer.In a separate bowl, whisk flour, baking soda, baking powder, and matcha.Add 1 egg at a time to the butter and sugar bowl. Mix in vanilla extract. Gradually add flour mixture, while mixing on low speed. You will need to increase the speed as you add more of the flour mixture.Once all of the flour mixture has been added, stir in walnuts and white chocolate chips.Roll 1-inch balls and place 2 inches apart on an un-greased baking sheet. Bake cookies for 12–14 minutes.

Chocolate Chunk Peanut Butter Cup Cookies
1 cup Unsalted Butter, Softened
3/4 cups Packed Light Brown Sugar
1/3 cups White Sugar
1 package (3.4 Oz. Size) Instant Vanilla Pudding Mix
2 Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2-1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 cup Chocolate Chunks
1 cup Reese's Peanut Butter Cups Mini's Unwrapped, Chopped

Preheat oven to 375ºF. Line 2 large baking pans with parchment paper or grease with nonstick cooking spray. Set aside.In a large bowl, beat butter, brown sugar, and white sugar with an electric hand mixer or stand mixer with fitted paddle attachment until light and fluffy. Add pudding mix, eggs, and vanilla, beating well.Add flour, 1/2 cup at a time, followed by baking soda. Mix until combined. Gently fold in chocolate chunks and mini peanut butter cups. Chill dough in refrigerator for 30 minutes to 1 hour, if desired.Using a cookie scoop or spoon, scoop dough into balls about 2 tablespoons each and place onto prepared baking pans. Bake 12–15 minutes, or until golden brown around edges of cookie.Remove from oven and allow cookies to cool on baking pan for 10 minutes. Then, remove to a wire rack to cool completely. Enjoy!

Gluten-Free Coconut and Honey Cookies
3 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1 whole Egg
3 Tablespoons Sugar
2 Tablespoons Milk Or Water
1/4 cups Honey
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract (optional)
1-1/2 cup Oat Flour
1/2 cups Shredded Coconut
1 teaspoon Baking Soda

Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F).You don’t have to melt your coconut oil, but warm it up a bit to make it softer and easier to work with.Add egg, sugar, milk, honey and vanilla extract to the coconut oil, and mix everything well. Add flour, shredded coconut and baking soda and mix again.Take two spoons and shape small balls out of the mixture. Put them on a baking tray covered with baking paper, and flatten them a bit. Leave enough space between the cookies, because they spread a bit while baking.Bake for 12–15 minutes, depending on the size of your cookies. Mine were a little bigger, so it took about 14–15 minutes. They are soft when you take them out of the oven, but they harden when they cool down.

Quesadilla Salvadoreña (Sweet Cheese Bread)
1-1/2 cup Grated Parmesan Cheese
1/2 cups Milk
4 Eggs, Separated
1-1/2 cup Rice Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1-1/2 cup Sugar
1/2 cups Sour Cream
1 cup Melted Butter
1/4 cups Sesame Seeds For Sprinkling

Mix Parmesan cheese with milk until combined. Set aside.In a bowl, beat egg whites until you have soft peaks. One by one, add yolks, beating continuously. Set aside.In another bowl, sift rice flour and baking powder. Stir in sugar. Add egg mixture and mix until incorporated. Add sour cream, butter, and the Parmesan cheese and milk mixture. Mix well.Preheat oven to 375°F. Prepare a 9×13 inch dish by flouring and buttering it lightly. Pour the mixture inside and spread it evenly. Sprinkle some sesame seeds on top.Bake for about 35–40 minutes or until a toothpick inserted comes out clean.

Passion Fruit Mousse (Quick and Simple)
FOR THE MOUSSE:
1 can (14 Oz. Size) La Lechera Sweetened Condensed Milk
1 can (7.6 Oz. Size) Nestle Media Crema Table Cream
1 can (7.6 Oz. Size, Use Crema Can To Measure) Goya Passion Fruit Pulp, From A Package
FOR THE TOPPING:
1 Passion Fruit (optional)
Remaining Goya Passion Fruit Pulp From Package
2 Tablespoons Sugar

Add sweetened condensed milk and media crema to a blender. Using the empty can of crema, measure out a full can of the pulp and add it to the blender as well. Blend until all the ingredients are incorporated. Use a spatula to scrape the bottom and sides of the blender to dislodge any sweetened condensed milk spots. Blend for 30-40 seconds after the mixture has been well incorporated.Pour into dessert glasses and chill for 4–6 hours to set, or preferably, overnight.Meanwhile, cut the passion fruit in half and scrape the contents into a bowl, along with the remaining Goya passion fruit pulp, about ½ cup or so. Stir in sugar, to taste.Heat the mixture in a small sauce pan over medium-low heat, stirring frequently. Cook until mixture is reduced by about half and is somewhat syrupy, about 10 minutes.Remove from heat, allow to come to room temperature, then store in the refrigerator to serve as a topping on the mousse.Notes: Give yourself at least 4–6 hours of refrigerator time to set the completed mouse. The mousse requires no cooking. The cooking time referenced is for the passion fruit syrup used as a topping.

Kiwi and Raspberry Chia Pudding
FOR THE CHIA LAYER:
1/2 cups Chia Seeds
1-1/2 cup Coconut Milk
FOR THE PINK LAYER:
1 cup Frozen Raspberries
1/4 cups Coconut Milk
1 Banana
FOR THE GREEN LAYER:
1 Banana
1 cup Spinach
2 Kiwis
2 Tablespoons Coconut Milk
3 cubes Ice (or More)

First, stir chia seeds and coconut milk. Place in fridge for at least 2 hours to set. When set, proceed with recipe.Place chia pudding layer in the bottom of glasses. For pink layer, mix all ingredients in a high-powered blender. You want the mixture to be thick so the colors don’t run together when you layer them in your glass. Gently pour the pink layer over top of chia layer.For green layer, mix all ingredients in a high-powered blender. Gently pour green layer on top of the pink layer.Top with sliced fruit. This makes 2 big servings or 4 small servings. If you need more sweetness, add 1 tablespoon maple syrup to one of the layers.

Chocolate Blueberry Fudge Cake
FOR THE BASE:
1 cup Almonds, Crushed
1/2 cups Almond Flour (roasted)
1/2 cups Dates, Pitted
1/2 cups Jumbo Rolled Oats
1/4 cups Water
1/4 cups Extra Virgin Coconut Oil
1 teaspoon Cinnamon, Ground
FOR THE FILLING:
2 teaspoons Agar-agar
4 cups Coconut Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 cup Vegan Chocolate Chips
2 cups Frozen Blueberries

Put all the ingredients for the base into a food processor until smooth. Press the mixture for the base into 8- to 9-inch baking tin with baking paper on the bottom.For the filling, use a big pot and whisk and mix the agar agar and coconut milk. Add vanilla extract and chocolate chips, bring to a boil while constantly stirring, about 5 minutes.Remove from heat and add frozen blueberries. Let cool for about 15 minutes.Pour the filling on top of the base and put it into the freezer for about 12 hours.

Mocha Latte Gummies
1 cup Espresso
3 Tablespoons Sweetened Condensed Milk, Depending On How Sweet And Milky You Like It
1 teaspoon Chocolate Extract, I Like Rodelle
3 envelopes (1/4 Oz. Or 1-tablespoon Size) Gelatin

Place gummy bear molds on a baking sheet so that you can transfer them easily to the fridge.In a small saucepan over medium-low heat, add espresso, sweetened condensed milk, and chocolate extract. Heat until mixture is warm to the touch.Add gelatin to the mixture 1 tablespoon at a time, whisking to combine between additions. Whisk everything together until gelatin is dissolved. Remove from heat.Use the dropper that comes with your gummy molds to quickly transfer the mixture to the molds. Refrigerate for 20 minutes until solid. If you have mixture left over after filling the first batch, set it aside and fill the molds after you remove the first round. If the mixture has solidified slightly, just re-heat it until smooth and liquidy again.Gummies can be kept in the fridge for up to 1 week.

Apple Pie with Oatmeal Crumble Topping
FOR THE PIE PASTRY:
1/2 cups Butter
1-1/3 cup Flour
1/4 cups Ice Water
FOR THE FILLING:
8 whole Granny Smith Apples, Peeled And Thinly Sliced
1/2 cups Sugar
1 teaspoon Ground Nutmeg
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Ground Ginger
FOR THE CRUMB TOPPING:
1/2 cups Flour
1 cup Oatmeal
1/2 cups Light Brown Sugar
1/3 cups Butter

For the pie pastry: Cut butter into flour with a pastry blender or fork until well-blended and particles are the size of small peas. Make a well in the center and pour in ice water. Toss together, being careful not to overwork the dough. Shape into a flat disk and place on floured board. Roll out to about 2 inches larger than inverted pie dish. Fold pastry in half and place in pie dish. Unfold and fit pastry to dish. Press firmly against bottom and sides. Crimp edges.For the filling: Heat oven to 375ºF.Peel and slice apples thinly. Mix sugar, nutmeg, cinnamon and ginger in a large bowl. Add sliced apples and toss well with sugar mixture. Turn into pastry-coated pie plate.For the crumb topping: In a medium-sized bowl, mix flour, oatmeal, brown sugar and butter with a fork or pastry blender. Sprinkle crumb topping over the apples in pastry-lined pie plate.Bake pie at 375ºF for 40–45 minutes. This recipe yields one 10-inch pie.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Aunt Rocky’s Banana Pudding (LCHF)
1 cup Heavy Whipping Cream
1/2 cups Unsweetened Vanilla Coconut Milk
1 teaspoon Banana Extract (or Any Flavor You Like)
3 whole Egg Yolks
1/3 cups Powdered Erythritol
1/2 teaspoons Glucomannan Powder (Konjac Root), Or Xanthan Gum

Measure out all of your ingredients, and line up your serving dishes before starting. This pudding comes together quickly.Pour cream, coconut milk and extract into medium saucepan. Heat on medium heat, stirring frequently. You don’t want it to boil! When it begins to foam around the edge, remove from heat.While cream mixture is heating, put egg yolks in a bowl and whisk with a small whisk or a fork until blended and creamy-looking. Set aside.In another small bowl, mix powdered sweetener and glucomannan together with a fork. This will keep the glucomannan from clumping when you mix it into the hot cream mixture.Temper eggs to keep them from turning into scrambled eggs in the pudding. Use a small measuring cup to scoop up about 1/4 cup of the hot cream mixture. Slowly drizzle the cream mix into your yolks, while whisking continuously. Now slowly pour yolk mixture into the saucepan, and again keep whisking until it all gets incorporated.Slowly whisk in the sweetener mixture, and return to low heat on the stove. Keep stirring slowly until the pudding begins to thicken (about 3 minutes), and it will thicken suddenly, so keep watching it. It thickens even more when chilled, so pour it into serving dishes while it’s still thin enough to pour.Pour into a single large bowl, or into 5 individual 1/2 cup serving bowls (I use 4-ounce Mason jars with lids). Set on wire rack until cool. Cover and refrigerate for at least 2 hours before serving.Chilled pudding can be frozen and defrosted without separating or changing consistency.Note: Glucomannan can be used to thicken gravies and sauces, too. It’s best to mix with another dry ingredient to keep it from clumping, or sprinkle lightly over an entire surface a little at a time. A little goes a long way.Nutritional information (estimates are per serving based on exact ingredients I used, calculated with a free online recipe analyzer): Calories 197, Total Fat 22 g, Saturated Fat 11 g, Sodium 24 mg, Potassium 15 mg, Total Carbohydrate 4 g, Dietary Fiber 2 g, Net Carbs 2 g, Sugars 0 g, Protein 2 g. Macros: 93% fat, 4% protein, 4% carbs.© September 4, 2016 Roxana Lopez for Aunt Rocky’sFor more low carb/keto recipes and cooking tips, look for Aunt Rocky’s Low Carb Recipes Group on Facebook.

Peanut Butter Bars with Marshmallow Crème Frosting
2 cups Unbleached All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Kosher Salt
12 Tablespoons Salted Butter, At Room Temperature
1 cup Creamy Peanut Butter
1-1/2 cup Granulated Sugar
3/4 cups Packed Light Brown Sugar
3 Eggs
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla
FOR THE FROSTING:
1/2 cups Marshmallow Crème
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, At Room Temperature
2 cups Powdered Sugar
2 Tablespoons Milk
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla
1 pinch Salt

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease a 9 x 13 pan, line with parchment, leaving an overhang on the long sides. Grease the parchment.In a medium bowl, whisk the flour, baking powder, and salt. Set aside.With an electric mixer, cream butter and peanut butter together until smooth. Beat in sugars, until fluffy. Add eggs, one at a time, until incorporated, adding the vanilla with the last egg. On low speed, mix in the flour in two additions.Spread the dough into the prepared pan. Bake for 35–40 minutes or until set and golden brown. Cool on a wire rack.To make the frosting, cream the marshmallow crème and butter together until completely smooth. Beat in powdered sugar, milk, vanilla, and salt on low speed until combined. Increase speed to medium and mix until fluffy. Use an offset spatula to spread on cooled bars.

No-Bake Chocolate and Banana Cake
FOR THE CRUST:
200 grams Whole Wheat Crackers, Ground
1 Tablespoon Powdered Cocoa
1 Tablespoon Powdered Sugar
80 grams Butter, Melted
1 Tablespoon Soft Peanut Butter
FOR THE BANANA LAYER:
2 Bananas, Sliced
FOR TEH CHOCOLATE CREAM:
250 milliliters Heavy Cream
80 grams Chopped Dark Chocolate
1 teaspoon Powdered Cocoa

For the crust, blend the crackers with cocoa, powdered sugar, melted butter and peanut butter. Prepare a springform pan and press the mixture onto its base.Layer bananas over the crust.For the chocolate cream, bring heavy cream to a boil and turn the heat. Stir in chocolate pieces and powdered cocoa. Blend well and pour onto the banana cake.Refrigerate for at least 2 hours before serving.

Puerto Rican Coconut Ice Pops
1 can (12 Oz. Size) Evaporated Milk
1 can (13 1/2 Oz. Size) Coconut Milk
1 can (15 Oz. Size) Coconut Cream
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Water
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon (optional)
1/4 cups Sugar, Or To Taste (optional)

In a big bowl, combine all the ingredients. Give it a taste and adjust sugar, if needed. Pour the mixture into ice pop molds and freeze for at least 6 hours.

Homemade Raffaello
200 grams Butter
200 grams White Sugar
200 grams Powdered Milk
270 grams Coconut Flakes, Divided
1 cup Hazelnuts, Roasted

First, melt the butter over low heat and add sugar. When sugar is melted, turn off heat and stir in powdered milk. Add 200 grams of coconut flakes and mix well. Reserve the rest of the coconut flakes for decorating.Mold “dough” balls and insert 1 hazelnut. Dust with remaining coconut flakes. Refrigerate for at least 10 minutes before serving.

Flan de Queso
1 cup Sugar
1 block (8 Oz. Size) Cream Cheese
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
1 can (12 Oz. Size) Evaporated Milk
5 Large Eggs, At Room Temperature
2 teaspoons Vanilla

Preheat to oven 350°F. Set a kettle of water to boil. Set an 8- or 9-inch cake (or pie) pan with 2-inch high sides inside of a larger baking pan (such as 13×9).In a small sauce pan over medium-low heat, melt sugar until completely dissolved. Watch carefully so it does not burn. You may swirl the pan to stir. Remove from heat when it is a dark golden, amber color.Immediately pour the melted sugar into the bottom of the cake pan, working quickly before it hardens. Set aside.In a stand mixer, beat the cream cheese to ensure that it’s smooth and lump-free. Add sweetened condensed milk, evaporated milk, eggs and vanilla. Mix until well combined.Strain the custard through a fine-mesh sieve to ensure there are no lumps. Pour the strained custard into the cake pan over the sugar caramel. Add boiling water to the larger pan. It should come up the sides about 1 inch deep. The cake pan will be sitting in a water bath.Bake for 1 hour, or until set around the edges with a slight jiggle in the middle. Remove from oven and let the flan cool in the water bath, about 1 hour. Once cool, refrigerate at least 2 hours, but overnight is best.When ready to serve, run a knife around the edges to loosen. Set a plate over the flan and flip upside-down to invert. Slice into wedges and serve.

Matcha Green Tea Doughnuts
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1/4 cups Sugar
1 teaspoon Matcha Green Tea Powder
3/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 whole Egg
1 Tablespoon Unsalted Butter
1/2 cups Half-and-half
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE GLAZE:
1/4 cups Confectioners Sugar
1 teaspoon Matcha Green Tea Powder
1/8 cups Boiling Water

Preheat oven to 375ºF.In a large mixing bowl, whisk dry ingredients: flour, sugar, matcha green tea powder, baking powder and baking soda. In a separate medium bowl, whisk wet ingredients: egg, butter, half-and-half, and vanilla extract until smooth. Mix wet and dry ingredients together until a batter forms.Fill a donut pan with the batter, only filling halfway since it will rise when baking in the oven. Bake for 5 minutes if making mini doughnuts or 8–10 minutes if making regular-sized doughnuts. They’re ready if you stick a knife through one and the batter does not stick to the knife when you pull it back out (it is dry). Remove from oven and cool on a rack before adding frosting or glaze.Make the glaze by whisking sugar, green tea powder and boiling water in a medium bowl until smooth. Dip the top of the doughnuts one by one into the glaze and set on a serving plate. Enjoy!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Healthy Chocolate Banana Ice Cream
2 Bananas
1 Tablespoon Maple Syrup
1 Tablespoon Cocoa Powder
Vegan Chocolate Chips For Topping

Slice bananas into coin size pieces and lay out on a cookie sheet. Freeze for several hours.Place all the frozen banana slices into a food processor and mix for a minute or until they start to resemble soft serve consistency. Add maple syrup and cocoa powder and process until mixed. Scrape down the sides with a spatula.Serve immediately for soft serve or place in freezer for 1 hour for hard-packed ice cream. Garnish with vegan chocolate chips.

Aunt Rocky’s Macadamia Toffee Fat Bomb (LCHF)
1/4 cups Butter
1/2 cups Granular Erythritol
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/4 teaspoons Table Salt
1-1/2 cup Salted Macadamia Nuts, Halved
FOR THE CHOCOLATE DRIZZLE:
3 pieces (1 Oz. Square Size) Bakers Unsweetened Chocolate, Chopped
1/2 teaspoons Coconut Oil
2 drops Liquid Sucralose (or Liquid Sweetener Of Choice)
1/4 teaspoons Coarse Sea Salt (optional)

Line a 7×11 pan with parchment and set aside. Cut macadamias in half and set aside.In a 10-inch nonstick skillet, melt butter over medium heat. Add sweetener, vanilla and table salt. Bring to boil and cook, stirring constantly for about 3 minutes. Mixture will foam and then foam will settle out. Cook a little bit longer, then remove from heat and add nuts. Stir until all of the nuts are coated.Turn out into parchment-lined pan. Stir a little more in the pan to be sure nuts are evenly dispersed in candy mixture.Allow to cool until set (don’t need to wait until completely cooled).To make the chocolate drizzle, put the chopped chocolate pieces and coconut oil in a small measuring cup. Microwave in 30-second intervals until everything is melted and can be stirred together with a small whisk or fork. Add the sweetener.Drizzle sauce over the hardened macadamia candy. Sprinkle the sea salt lightly over the top, if using. Cool until completely hardened (speed up by putting in the refrigerator, if you want to).Cut or break into 8 servings. Store in snack size zip bags at room temperature.Tip: These fat bombs are very portable. You can keep them in a desk, a purse, or take along on a trip. When traveling, I put several servings in an airtight plastic container in my suitcase.Nutritional information (estimates are per serving based on exact ingredients I used, calculated with a free online recipe analyzer): Calories 174, Total Fat 16 g, Saturated Fat 5 g, Total Carbohydrate 5 g, Dietary Fiber 3 g, Net Carbs 2 g, Sugars 1 g, Protein 3 g. Macros: 88% fat, 7% protein, 5% carbs.© July 21, 2016 Roxana Lopez for Aunt Rocky’s

Baked Apples with Honey and Slivered Almonds
4 whole Sweet/Tart Baking Apples
2-1/2 Tablespoons Butter
1 ounce, weight Slilvered Almonds
1/2 cups Honey

Heat oven to 375ºF.Wash apples. Cut each in half and core with a melon baller.Place halved apples in ungreased 9 x 9 x 2 inch baking dish. Place 1/2 teaspoon butter in the center of each half. Top each half with slivered almonds. Drizzle with honey.Bake at 375ºF for 30 minutes or until flesh of apple is tender when pierced with a fork. Transfer to serving plate and pour honey from baking dish over. Serve warm or cold for a delicious dessert or snack.

No-Bake Chocolate Almond Butter Truffles
1/3 cups Almond Butter
1/4 cups Maple Syrup (or Agave Nectar For Vegan Option)
1 teaspoon Vanilla
3 Tablespoons Melted Coconut Oil, Divided
3/4 cups Almond Flour
1 cup Melted Paleo Or Dark Chocolate Chips
1 pinch Sea Salt Or Cashews

Using an electric mixer, combine almond butter, maple syrup, vanilla, 2 tablespoons coconut oil, and almond flour in a large mixing bowl and blend until smooth. Cover and place in refrigerator for about 30 minutes or until dough is firm.Melt chocolate chips and remaining tablespoon of coconut oil according to package directions. Set aside.Shape batter into 1-inch balls, dip into the melted chocolate, and place on a baking sheet. Store in the refrigerator until chocolate has hardened.Store in either the refrigerator or the freezer in an airtight container. Do not layer truffles one on top of the other until chocolate has set.

A Big Pan of Spice Cake
5 whole Eggs
1/2 cups Canola Or Vegetable Oil
3-1/2 cups Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Rum Extract
1/2 teaspoons Almond Flavoring
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
4-1/2 cups Flour
1 Tablespoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Salt
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Nutmeg
1/2 teaspoons Ginger
2 cups Shredded Zucchini, Drained Well
2 whole Apples, Cored But Not Peeled, Diced Finely Or Shredded
1 cup Chopped Pecans (optional)
FOR THE SAUCE:
1/2 cups Butter
1/2 cups Whipping Cream
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
1/2 cups White Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla
FOR SERVING:
1 gallon Vanilla Ice Cream

This recipe is meant for a 13×18 baking pan with 2-inch high sides. If you don’t have a pan that big, you will need to halve the recipe and bake in a 9×13 or a sheet cake pan. Spray or grease and flour the pan. Preheat oven to 350ºF.In a very large mixing bowl, beat eggs, oil, sugar, and flavorings. In a large bowl, stir flour, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, nutmeg, and ginger. Add dry ingredients to the batter, along with zucchini, apples, and chopped pecans. Stir until combined.Pour into prepared pan. Bake 30 minutes or until set in the middle.Meanwhile, prepare the sauce. In a small saucepan over low heat, stir butter, cream, sugars, and vanilla until smooth. Do not boil.Cut the cake into 35 pieces and serve with a scoop of vanilla ice cream and the sauce poured over top.

No-Bake Energy Balls
100 grams Peanut Butter
40 grams Honey
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
20 grams Ground Almonds
15 grams Ground Walnuts
15 grams Ground Peanuts
20 grams Raisins
15 grams Dried Banana
15 grams Pumpkin Seeds
25 grams Oats
25 grams Puffed Rice
24 whole Hazelnuts

In a big bowl, mix peanut butter with honey and cinnamon. Add almonds, walnuts, peanuts, raisins, dried banana and pumpkin seeds. Mix well. Add oats and puffed rice, and whisk together.Start making little balls around a hazelnut. When all energy balls are ready, leave them in the fridge for 1 hour before serving—they taste even better that way.

Brown Butter Pretzel Peanut Butter Cup Blondie
8 Tablespoons Butter
1 cup Light Or Dark Brown Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 Large Egg
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1 pinch Salt
1/2 cups Pretzel Pieces
1/2 cups Mini Peanut Butter Cups

Preheat oven to 350°F. Line a 8 x 8 baking pan with aluminum foil, then grease the pan.In a small saucepan, melt butter over medium heat. Once butter has melted, continue to cook it until it is golden brown in color (about 5–10 minutes).Once you have browned the butter, take the pan off the heat. Add brown sugar and vanilla. Add egg, stir until incorporated.Add flour and salt to the saucepan and mix until just incorporated. Add pretzel pieces and mini peanut butter cups and stir until these are equally distributed.Bake in preheated oven for 20–25 minutes or until a toothpick comes out clean after it is inserted into the center of the pan. Cool on a wire rack, then cut into 16 pieces and serve!

Coconut Cream Pie
FOR THE CRUST:
2 cups Graham Cracker Crumbs
1-1/2 stick Butter, Melted
3 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Spiced Rum
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
FOR THE FILLING:
1 cup Shredded Coconut
3 cups Half-and-half
2 whole Eggs
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups Flour
1/2 teaspoons Coconut Extract
1 pinch Salt
Whipped Cream For Topping

First, make the crust. Preheat oven to 350ºF and spray a 9-inch pie pan really well with cooking spray. Combine graham cracker crumbs, butter, sugar, rum and cinnamon together in a bowl and stir them together really well to resemble wet sand. Press the mixture into the pie pan firmly to form a solid, even crust. Bake it for 15–20 minutes to let it completely bake through and set. It will become gorgeously golden. While it bakes, spread the coconut out onto a lined sheet tray and toast it in the oven with the crust on another shelf. It should take 5–7 minutes for it to toast perfectly. Let the crust and coconut cool completely once they are done.While they cool, make the coconut cream. Combine the half and half, eggs, sugar, flour, coconut extract and salt together in a medium sauce pan. Whisk it all together thoroughly, then heat it on the stove over low heat. Stir it constantly while it warms up, then slowly increase the heat to medium low after 3–4 minutes. Number 4 on my gas stove was the magic number. Once it starts to bubble and thicken, keep stirring it constantly to let it cook for a couple of minutes. Then take it off of the heat and stir in 3/4 cup of the toasted coconut. Reserve the rest of the coconut to top the pie.Spread the coconut cream evenly in the cooled graham cracker crust and chill the pie for at least 4 hours. Then top it with a generous layer of whipped cream and sprinkle the remaining toasted coconut on the very top. Serve and enjoy!

No-Bake Vegan Jam Mini Crumb Squares
1/3 cups Desiccated Coconut
1/2 cups Oat Flour
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
2 Tablespoons Tahini
4 Tablespoons Jam
1 Tablespoon Rolled Oats

Put desiccated coconut, oat flour, maple syrup, coconut oil and tahini into a blender or a food processor, and mix everything well.Save 1 tablespoon of the mixture and transfer the rest into a container or a small tray covered with plastic wrap. Press the mixture down to form an even layer, and put it into the freezer for 15–20 minutes. Remove from freezer and spread jam over it.Combine the reserved 1 tablespoon mixture with the rolled oats. Scatter over the jam and press down lightly.Keep it in the fridge for a few hours until bar has hardened, and cut it into squares.

Rizogalo-Greek Rice Pudding
2 cups Water
1 cup Long Grain Rice (not Instant)
8 cups Milk, Whole Or Low Fat
1/2 cups Butter
3/4 cups Sugar
4 whole Eggs
1 Tablespoon Vanilla
2 Tablespoons Cinnamon

In a 4-quart sauce pan, bring water to a boil over medium high heat. Add rice. Stir and cook for 4 to 5 minutes until water has evaporated.Lower heat to low and stir in milk, butter and sugar. Cover and cook over low heat for 1 to 1 1/4 hours, stirring occasionally.Whip eggs with a fork or whisk. Stir 2 to 3 tablespoons of the hot rice mixture into the eggs (so that the eggs do not curdle). Pour the egg mixture slowly into the rice, stirring constantly. Add vanilla. Stir for 2 to 3 minutes and remove from heat.Pour into dessert dishes and sprinkle with cinnamon. Refrigerate when cooled.This recipe makes 10 to 12 one-cup servings.

Magical Coconut Fluff Carrot Cupcakes (Vegan, Gluten-free)
2 cups Water
5 whole Medium Sized Carrots, Peeled And Grated
2 cups Granulated Sugar
1 Tablespoon Fresh Lemon Juice
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Essence
1/2 cups Whole Rice Flour
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon Powder
1 pinch Salt
1 Tablespoon Cornstarch Or Aquafaba
1 Tablespoon Baking Powder
165 milliliters High Fat Coconut Milk (20% Or So)
1/3 cups Vegan White Chocolate Chips
Lemon Zest (optional)

Preheat oven to 180°C (356°F).Pour water into a pot and bring to a boil. Depending on your pot size, you may need a bit more water (I use a small pot for this). Once water is boiling, lower the heat to medium and add the grated carrots, sugar and lemon juice. Stir it every few minutes for about 30 minutes. The carrots will be soft and a little sticky and some of the water will have evaporated.Drain the remaining water and let carrots cool for a few minutes. Transfer them to a bowl and add vanilla, rice flour, cinnamon, and salt. If you are using cornstarch, add it to the bowl along with the baking powder. If you are using aquafaba (bean liquid), mix it with the baking powder in a separate bowl before adding it to the bowl. Add coconut milk and chocolate chips and mix the ingredients until uniform.Pour batter into cupcake molds (preferably silicone) and bake for 30 minutes. The cupcakes will be golden. Once they are done, remove from oven and let cupcakes cool. I don’t recommend eating them immediately, as they will be too soft.Garnish with grated lemon zest if desired.

$850 Dark Chocolate Peanut Butter Cups
16 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate (60-70% Cacao), Chopped
3 Tablespoons Coconut Oil, Divided
1/2 cups Organic, Natural Peanut Butter

To melt the chocolate, use either a double boiler or a large bowl placed over, but not touching, a pot of boiling water. Add the chocolate and 2 tablespoons of the coconut oil and allow both to melt completely, while stirring occasionally. Once everything is smooth, turn off heat, but leave the bowl on the pot to keep warm.In a small bowl, combine peanut butter with remaining 1 tablespoon coconut oil.Line a plate, muffin tin (my preferred method), or small cutting board with cupcake liners. You could make these using mini or regular cupcake molds, depending on what size you’d like them to turn out. I recommend doubling up the liners to give them a bit more structure.Pour enough of the melted chocolate mixture to cover the bottom of each liner. Then place them in the freezer for about 5 minutes to set.Once set, add a small scoop of the peanut butter mixture into the center of the cup and gently flatten with your thumb or the back of a spoon. Pour enough melted chocolate over the peanut butter to cover the top, about 1 to 2 tablespoons.Place back into the freezer for about 25–30 minutes to completely set.If you’re not going to eat these right away, make sure to remove the peanut butter cups from the freezer about 1/2 hour before serving and place them into the fridge to thaw some. Otherwise, they’ll be difficult to bite through.Note: If you want to keep this recipe clean, make sure to use a natural, organic peanut butter that just contains peanuts and doesn’t contain corn syrup, hydrogenated vegetable oils, or other processed ingredients.

Three-Ingredient Paleo Chocolate Truffles
1 can (about 13 1/2 Oz. Size) Coconut Cream (not Coconut Milk)
8 ounces, weight Vegan, Paleo-friendly Chocolate, Chopped (85% Dark Chocolate)
1 Tablespoon Maple Syrup
Freeze-Dried Strawberries, Ground, For Rolling (optional)

Pour coconut cream into a pan over medium-high heat and whisk to combine. Heat until it starts to boil around edges. Add chopped chocolate and continue to whisk. Remove from heat. Add maple syrup.Place in refrigerator and allow to chill at least a few hours.When completely chilled, use a mini melon scooper to make even-sized balls. Roll into a round shape. If desired, roll in crushed freeze dried strawberries. (I used my food processor to chop mine.)

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Vegan Carrot Cake Coconut Macaroons
1/2 cups Shredded Carrots
3 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
3 Tablespoons Coconut Nectar
1-1/2 cup Shredded Coconut
1 Tablespoon Coconut Flour
1/4 teaspoons Ceylon Cinnamon
1/8 teaspoons Sea Salt

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease a cookie sheet with coconut oil or line with unbleached parchment paper.Mix carrots, coconut oil and coconut nectar in a large bowl. Stir in coconut, coconut flour, cinnamon and salt. Mix well, stirring until mixture forms a dough.Chill dough in freezer for 5 minutes or in the fridge for 10–15 minutes so dough holds together well.Scoop rounded tablespoonfuls of dough, packing into a greased tablespoon and gently scooping out onto a cookie sheet in mounds. Re-grease the spoon as needed to help the dough slide off more easily.Bake at 350ºF for 9–12 minutes. Cool well on sheet before removing to avoid crumbling. Enjoy!

Crispy Flourless Flax Cookies
2 Tablespoons Flax Meal
2 Tablespoons Water
6 Tablespoons Peanut Butter
2 Tablespoons Sweetener Of Your Choice

Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F).Mix flax meal with water and whisk until everything is mixed well. Add peanut butter and sweetener and mix everything together.Pour spoonfuls of the mixture onto a baking tray covered with baking paper, leaving enough space between them. Bake for about 8–10 minutes, but keep an eye on the cookies. Don’t touch them while they are still warm because they are very soft.Let them cool down completely and then enjoy!

Forest Fruit Cheesecake with Raspberry Curd
FOR THE RASPBERRY CURD:
2 Tablespoons Butter, Melted
300 grams Raspberries, Frozen
1/2 cups White Sugar
4 Egg Yolks
2 Tablespoons Cornstarch
FOR THE CRUST:
150 grams Whole Wheat Crackers, Ground
1 Tablespoon Powdered Sugar
100 grams Butter, Melted
FOR THE CHEESECAKE:
250 grams Cream Cheese
100 milliliters Heavy Cream
3 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar
3 Eggs Yolks
4 Tablespoons White Flour
1/2 cups Forest Fruits, Frozen

For the raspberry curd, melt butter in a skillet. Add raspberries and cook at low heat for a few minutes. Add sugar and egg yolks and blend well, smashing the raspberries. After about 20 minutes, add cornstarch and stir well until the cream gets thicker. Then turn off heat and strain the mixture.For the crust, put the crackers in a bowl. Add sugar and stir in melted butter. Add it to the baking tray, pressing the mixture onto its base.Preheat oven to 200ºC (400ºF). Mix cream cheese with heavy cream, sugar, and egg yolks until creamy. Add flour gradually and pour the mixture over the crust.Dust the forest fruits with flour and add them to the cheesecake. Bake for 10 minutes, then lower the heat to 100ºC (212ºF) and bake for another 40 minutes.

Tiramisu Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
4 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 stalks Unsalted Butter, Softened
1 cup Granulated Sugar
4 whole Large Eggs
3 Tablespoons Milk
1/2 Tablespoons Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Espresso Powder
1 Tablespoon Cocoa Powder
FOR THE COFFEE SYRUP:
2 Tablespoons Espresso Powder
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups Water
FOR THE MASCARPONE ICING:
2-1/2 cups Mascarpone Cheese
1 cup Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 teaspoon Espresso Powder
1 teaspoon Cocoa Powder

To prepare cake, preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease three 5-inch cake pans and line bottoms with parchment paper. Set aside.In a large bowl, sift flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt.In a standing mixer with a paddle attachment, beat butter and sugar on medium speed until light and fluffy. Add eggs, one at a time, and continue beating until well combined. With the mixer on low, add half of the flour mixture, then milk, and the remaining flour mixture. Mix until combined.Divide batter evenly into 3 portions. Fold in vanilla, espresso powder and cocoa powder in each portion respectively, until well mixed.Pour batter into prepared cake pans. Bake for 15–18 minutes. Remove from oven and let cakes cool completely.Run a paring knife around the edge of the cake to loosen it from the pan. Peel off the parchment paper circles.To prepare coffee syrup, place all the ingredients into a saucepan. Bring to the boil and stir until the sugar has dissolved. Remove from the heat and cool.To prepare frosting, combine mascarpone and powdered sugar in a standing mixer with the paddle attachment on low speed until smooth.Divide frosting into 3 portions. Fold in vanilla, espresso powder and cocoa powder respectively. Mix until smooth.To assemble the cake, place the chocolate cake layer on the serving plate and spread a layer of chocolate frosting. Place the espresso cake layer on top and spread a layer of espresso frosting. Place the vanilla cake on top and spread a layer of vanilla frosting on it.To create the ombre effect, starting at the bottom, carefully smear the side of the chocolate cake with chocolate frosting, followed with espresso frosting on the side of the espresso cake, and vanilla frosting on the side of the vanilla cake. Use a mental spatula to smooth frosting all over the cake, to blend the colors together and create a rustic stripe effect.Dust the cake top with cocoa powder and garnish with espresso or chocolate macarons, if desired.

Mini Chocolate Hand Pies
FOR THE DOUGH:
2-1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1/4 cups Cocoa Powder
2 Tablespoons Sugar
1 teaspoon Salt
1 cup Cold Butter Cubed
1/2 cups Heavy Cream, Or More If Needed
Egg Wash
FOR THE CHOCOLATE FILLING:
1/2 cups Heavy Cream
1/2 cups Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
2 Tablespoons Creamy Natural Peanut Butter
FOR THE DRIZZLE:
1/2 cups Leftover Chocolate Filling (From Above)
1 Tablespoon Melted Coconut Oil
1 Tablespoon Creamy Natural Peanut Butter

Begin by making the dough. In a food processor, combine flour, cocoa powder, sugar, salt and the butter. Pulse until a coarse meal forms. Add heavy cream and pulse to combine. The dough should be fairly shaggy. If it is still too dry, add an additional tablespoon. Once the dough is the right consistency, divide it in half and shape the halves into disks. Wrap them in plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 2 hours.Remove the dough from the fridge and roll it out on a floured surface to about a 1/4 thickness. Cut out in desired shape (I used 3-inch circular cookie cutters) and place the cut out dough on a baking sheet. Put the dough back in the fridge while you make the filling. You should have 24 rounds to make the hand pies.To make the filling, place the chocolate in a medium glass bowl. Heat the cream in a small saucepan over medium heat. Just as the cream begins to boil, remove it from the heat and pour it over the chocolate. Stir until the chocolate is melted and smooth. Add peanut butter and allow the filling to cool for at least 15 minutes.Preheat oven to 400ºF. Once the filling has cooled, remove the dough from the fridge. Brush the edges of half of the circles with egg wash. Then, place a heaping spoonful of the filing on the center of the circle. It may be a little runny, but that’s ok! Top the dough rounds with another round and crimp the edges to seal the dough together. Again, the filling may run out of the edges, but just clean up the exterior of the hand pies as you seal them.Bake the hand pies for 15–16 minutes, or until just set. Remove from the oven and allow to cool while you make the drizzle.To make the drizzle, begin with leftover filing. Add melted coconut oil and peanut butter to make the drizzle thinner. Once pies are cooled, drizzle chocolate over the pies as desired.Either serve immediately or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Eclairs
FOR THE ECLAIRS:
1/2 cups Whole Milk
1/2 cups Water
8 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
1 teaspoon Table Salt
2 teaspoons Granulated Sugar
1 cup All-purpose Flour
5 Large Eggs
Confectioners Sugar, For Dusting
2 cups Pastry Cream (See My TK Recipe Box)
FOR THE GANACHE TOPPING:
8 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate, Finely Chopped
8 ounces, weight Heavy Cream

For the pastry shells: Preheat oven to 450ºF. In a 4-quart nonstick saucepan, heat milk, water, butter, salt, and sugar until it boils. Immediately add flour and stir vigorously until all the liquid is absorbed by the flour and a paste forms. Continue stirring constantly until paste dries out and forms a ball that cleans the sides of the pan. Transfer the paste to the bowl of a stand mixer or food processor and allow it to cool for a couple of minutes.Add eggs, one at a time, beating until each is fully incorporated. Transfer paste to a large disposable pastry bag that has been fitted with a large star tip (I used Ateco #826). Pipe the paste into 3 or 4-inch lengths on a silicone-lined sheet pan. Dust with confectioners sugar.Bake for 5 minutes, then reduce heat to 350ºF and continue baking for 25–30 minutes more. Remove from oven and allow to rest until they’re cool enough to handle, then poke a couple of vent holes in the bottom and allow to cool completely. When completely cool, use a pastry bag fitted with a bismarck tip to fill pastry shells with vanilla pastry cream through the vent holes, scraping away any excess pastry cream.Note: My recipe for Vanilla Pastry Cream (Creme Patissierie) can be found in my TK Recipe Box.For the ganache topping: Place chopped chocolate in a medium bowl. In a small heavy-bottomed saucepan, heat cream over medium heat until it just begins to boil. Pour the hot cream over the chopped chocolate and rest for several minutes. Whisk to combine fully and use immediately.To assemble the eclairs: Dip the top of each pastry cream filled shell in the ganache. Turn right side up and place on a flattened out cupcake liner or on a serving platter.Recipe adapted from pastry chef Bruno Albouze.

Brownie Truffles
FOR THE BROWNIES:
3/4 cups Salted Butter
1 cup Packed Light Brown Sugar
1 cup Granulated Sugar
1 cup Dutch Process Cocoa Powder
3/4 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
4 Eggs
1 cup Unbleached All-purpose Flour
FOR THE COATINGS:
Chocolate Melting Wafers
Natural Cocoa Powder
Powdered Sugar

Line a 9 x 13-inch pan with foil. Grease the foil. Preheat oven to 325ºF.In a medium saucepan, melt butter over medium-low heat. Once melted, stir in sugars. Stir and heat until sugar is hot, about 1–2 minutes more.Remove pan from the heat and whisk in cocoa powder, salt, and baking powder. Whisk in vanilla. Add eggs one at a time, whisking until incorporated. Stir in flour.Pour into the prepared pan and smooth the top. Bake for 26–30 minutes, or until done. Set on a wire rack to cool completely.Once cool, use the foil to lift the brownies out of the pan. Cut into 48 pieces. Discard the 4 corner pieces. Roll/press the remaining 44 pieces into balls.For dipped truffles, melt the chocolate wafers according to package directions. Use a fork to dip the brownie balls into the melted chocolate. Place on a waxed paper-lined cookie sheet to set up.For rolled truffles, pour cocoa powder and powdered sugar into separate pie plates. Roll the brownie balls into the coatings. Tap off excess, especially with the cocoa powder.Store in airtight containers at room temperature.

Chocolate Covered Strawberries
12 Strawberries, Washed And Dried
3/4 cups Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips, Melted
3/4 cups White Chocolate Chips, Melted
Food Colouring (optional)
Assorted Sprinkles (optional)

Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.Dip half the strawberries into melted chocolate and place on parchment paper.Dip the remaining strawberries into melted white chocolate. If you want to make the chocolate pink for Valentine’s Day, add a drop of pink or red food colouring to the white chocolate first.Drizzle the remaining chocolate on top and sprinkle with assorted sprinkles (optional). Place baking sheet in the refrigerator and chill for 30 minutes.

Delicious Paleo Chocolate Muffins
1/2 cups Dark Chocolate
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
4 Tablespoons Tahini
3 Tablespoons Honey
2/3 cups Desiccated Coconut
1-1/2 Tablespoon Baking Powder
2 whole Eggs

Leave eggs at room temperature for a while.Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F).Melt chocolate and add coconut oil. Then add tahini, honey, shredded coconut and baking powder. Mix everything well. Make sure the mixture isn’t too hot when you are adding the eggs. Whisk the eggs thoroughly and add to the rest of the ingredients. Mix everything well and transfer the mixture into muffin molds, filling 2/3 of the molds.Bake for 15–18 minutes and check muffins with a toothpick. If they are soft in the middle but baked on top, you can cover them with aluminum foil and let them continue baking until they are done.Let cool and enjoy!

Simple Berry Crumble with Oats & Ground Almonds
1/2 cups Ground Almonds
2 cups Whole Oats
1 dash Kosher Salt
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
6 Tablespoons Honey
5 Tablespoons Coconut Oil, Room Temperature
4 cups Frozen Berries

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Chop the almonds in a food processor until finely ground. Combine oats, ground almonds, salt, and vanilla in a large bowl. Add honey and coconut oil and stir with wooden spoon until well mixed.In a square baking dish (8×8 or 9×9), arrange berries at the bottom. Spoon oat mixture over berries and spread evenly.Bake for 25–35 minutes or until oat mixture has turned golden brown. Serve warm. Will keep in a sealed container for 7 days but good luck trying to keep it in your fridge for that long.Note: For a vanilla glaze topping, I combined ½ cup powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla, 1 tablespoon skim milk in a small bowl. Stir with whisk.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Raspberry Beet Mini Cheesecakes with Dark Chocolate Pecan Crust
1 cup Raw Pecans
1 cup Pitted Dates, Packed
2 Tablespoons Dark Cocoa Powder
1/8 teaspoons Sea Salt
FOR THE CHEESECAKE FILLING:
1 cup Raw Cashews
1/3 cups Freshly Squeezed Lemon Juice
1/4 cups Coconut Oil, Melted
1 cup Fresh Raspberries
1 Medium Raw Beet, Peeled And Quartered
1/2 cups Full Fat Coconut Milk, Refrigerated
1 container (6 Oz. Size) Plain Coconut Dream Non Dairy Yogurt
1/4 cups Pure Maple Syrup

Cover the raw cashews with boiling hot water and soak for 1 hour to help them soften up.In a food processor or heavy duty blender, add raw pecans and process into an rough meal consistency. Add pitted dates, dark cocoa powder, and sea salt into the food processor. Process until smooth or a small ball forms, about 1 minute.Lay out thin strips of parchment paper into each slot in a muffin tin and scoop the pecan-date mixture evenly into the muffin tins. Carefully pack it down evenly using your fingers. This will serve as the yummy dark chocolate pecan crust.To make the raspberry beet cheesecake filling, add softened, drained cashews into a blender, followed by the freshly squeezed lemon juice, melted coconut oil, raspberries, raw peeled beet, chilled coconut milk (just scoop the top of the hardened coconut milk from the top of the can, and leave the clear liquid underneath), and pure maple syrup.Blend until very smooth. The smoother this mixture is, the creamier your cheesecake will be.Pour the filling evenly into each muffin tin over the pecan crust, filling all the way up. Place the muffin tin into the freezer and freeze for 1–2 hours to allow the mixture to set.When you’re ready to eat, just pull up on the parchment paper to remove the cheesecake, then discard the parchment paper. You may need to allow it to set at room temperature for 5 minutes to thaw.

Vanilla Pastry Cream (Creme Patissierie)
2 cups Whole Milk
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Cornstarch
4 Large Egg Yolks
2 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
1/2 Vanilla Bean Pod, Seeds Scraped (or 1 Teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract)
1 pinch Table Salt

In a 2-quart heavy bottom saucepan over medium-high heat, cook all ingredients, stirring constantly, until it begins to boil; continue whisking for a full minute. Remove from heat and strain through a sieve. Cover pastry cream with a layer of plastic wrap directly on the surface; chill completely before using.Recipe makes about 2 cups.Recipe adapted from Martha Stewart.Note: If using vanilla extract, stir it in after the custard is removed from the heat.

Creme de Thin Mints
1 cup Butter, Softened
1 cup Powdered Sugar
3/4 teaspoons Salt
2 Tablespoons Creme De Menthe
1 cup Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
2 cups All-purpose Flour
FOR THE COATING:
16 ounces, weight Semi-sweet Baking Chocolate
1 teaspoon Coconut Oil
1 Tablespoon Creme De Menthe

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Cream softened butter, then add powdered sugar, mixing until combined. Stir in salt, creme de menthe and cocoa powder. Add flour and mix until combined.Form dough into a ball, flatten into a disk, cover in plastic wrap. Freeze for 15 minutes.Remove from the freezer and roll it out to about 1/8-inch thickness. Cut cookies using a round cookie cutter (I used a shot glass).Put cookies on a baking sheet and bake 10 minutes. Remove from oven and cool on a rack.For the coating: Chop baking chocolate. Melt coconut oil in a double boiler until smooth. Slowly stir in creme de menthe. If you like your cookies extra minty, you can add 1 teaspoon peppermint extract instead of the creme de menthe.Dip cooled cookies completely in chocolate coating. Place on parchment or wax paper and set in freezer or fridge until firm.

Strawberry Balsamic Meringue Roses
4 whole Egg Whites
1 Tablespoon Cornstarch
1 Tablespoon Strawberry Gelatin Powder
1 Tablespoon Balsamic Vinegar
1 cup Granulated Sugar

Preheat oven to 200ºF and line 2 sheet trays with silicone mats. Crack the egg whites into a clean, bone dry bowl and use a hand mixer to whip them up into a foam for just 30 seconds. Add in the corn starch, gelatin powder and balsamic vinegar and whip it all together until the mixture starts to form soft peaks. Finally, pour in the sugar and continue to whip the meringue together until it forms stiff peaks. Transfer the meringue into a pastry bag fitted with a wide star tip.Pipe the first rose right onto the sheet tray by starting in the center first and then continuing around it in a circle until you have a rose shape. Pipe about 15 onto each tray, depending on how big you make them. Bake the cookies for an hour and a half to basically dry the meringues on a low temperature. Turn off the heat and leave them in the oven for 8 hours to completely dry. Then transfer them into sealable containers or zip top bags until you want to give them out or serve them!

Skillet Brownie with Chocolate Espresso Whipped Cream
FOR THE BROWNIE:
3/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
2-1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
3 Eggs
1 cup Plus 2 Tablespoons, All-purpose Flour
3/4 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1/2 teaspoons Kosher Salt (sea Or Table Salt Is Fine Too)
1-1/4 cup Dark Chocolate Chips (or Semi-sweet), Divided
FOR THE CHOCOLATE ESPRESSO WHIPPED CREAM:
1 cup Heavy Whipping Cream
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2-1/2 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar
3 Tablespoons Dark Or Regular Unsweetened Cocoa Powder (I Used Hershey’s Special Dark)
1 teaspoon Espresso Powder Or Coffee Granules

For the Brownie: Preheat oven to 350° F. and spray a 10-inch cast iron skillet with cooking spray.In a large mixing bowl, whisk butter, sugar, and vanilla until combined. Whisk in eggs, one at a time, until blended.In a small mixing bowl, stir flour, cocoa, and salt. Gradually add flour mixture to butter mixture, stirring with a rubber spatula to combine. Stir in ¾ cup chocolate chips.Spread batter evenly in prepared pan and sprinkle remaining ½ cup chocolate chips over top. Bake 35–38 minutes, or until a toothpick comes out with moist crumbs when inserted. (While brownie is baking, make whipped cream.)Once brownies are done baking, transfer to a cooling rack and let cool for about 20 minutes or until desired serving temperature. You definitely want to eat this warm, but not hot.For the whipped cream: To the bowl of a stand mixer, add heavy whipping cream, vanilla, sugar, cocoa, and espresso powder. Whisk briefly to combine. Cover bowl with plastic wrap and chill in freezer, along with whisk attachment, for 30 minutes, at least.Once chilled, beat on high speed using the whisk attachment until stiff peaks form. (See note below!) Transfer whipped cream to a serving bowl.Serve brownies warm, with chocolate espresso whipped cream and chocolate sauce (if desired) for topping. Plain whipped cream and ice cream also make wonderful toppings.Note: If you have beat whipped cream for a few minutes and it’s still a bit runny, place bowl back in freezer for about 10 minutes, then beat again until you reach stiff peaks.

Plum Upside Down Cake
12 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, At Room Temperature, Divided
3/4 cups Packed Brown Sugar
1 Tablespoon Honey
5 whole Black Plums, Pitted And Thinly Sliced
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 cup White Granulated Sugar
2 whole Eggs
3/4 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Milk

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease a 9-inch wide, 2-inch tall pie dish or springform pan. If using a springform pan, wrap bottom of pan tightly in aluminum foil (in case any juices leak out during cooking).In a medium saucepan over medium low heat, melt half of the butter. Once melted, add brown sugar and honey and stir to combine. Cook until sauce becomes thick and smooth. Pour sauce in the prepared pie dish. Place plum slices in the bottom of the pan in concentric circles.In a small bowl, mix flour, baking powder, cinnamon and salt. In another larger bowl, beat remaining butter with white sugar. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. Stir in vanilla.Gradually add flour mixture into wet mixture alternating with milk, mixing just until batter is combined. Scoop batter on top of the plums and gently spread to cover entire pan. Place in the oven and bake about 1 hour or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean.Remove the pan from the oven and allow it to cool for 30 minutes. After 30 minutes has elapsed, carefully cut around sides of the pan with a butter knife to loosen the cake from the pan. Place a large plate on top of the pie pan, and quickly invert the pan to release the cake onto the plate. Serve cake warm and store in the refrigerator.Recipe adapted from Epicurious.

Small Batch Sugar Cookie Bars With Cherry Cream Cheese Frosting
FOR THE COOKIES:
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1 Large Egg
1/4 teaspoons Almond Extract
1-1/4 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1-3/4 cup All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE FROSTING:
4 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Softened
4 ounces, fluid Cream Cheese
3 Tablespoons Maraschino Cherry Juice (liquid From A Jar Of Maraschino Cherries)
1/4 teaspoons Cherry Extract
2 cups Powdered Sugar
Festive Sprinkles Or Maraschino Cherries For Garnish

Preheat oven to 350ºF, and line a 8×8 pan with parchment paper.In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, add softened butter and beat on medium-high speed for about 30 seconds. Slowly add the granulated sugar while continuing to beat. Add egg, almond and vanilla extract, and beat to combine.Turn off the stand mixer, and add flour, baking powder and salt on top. Turn the mixer back on low to incorporate the dry ingredients. Don’t over-mix. The batter will look slightly crumbly but that’s okay.Scoop the batter into the prepared baking pan, and press it flat with your fingers. Bake for 20 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted comes out mostly clean. Let cool completely.Clean out your stand mixer bowl to make the frosting. Beat the softened butter and cream cheese for 1 minute, until fluffy. Add maraschino cherry juice and cherry extract and beat to combine. Turn the mixer to low and add the powdered sugar a little bit at a time while continuing to mix.You can spread the frosting over the cooled cookie, decorate and then slice. Or you can do as I did and use a shaped cookie cutter to create hearts or whatever you like. I then decorated them individually, but you do you. The scraps from cutting them out are free for snacking.Note: I used Watkins brand cherry extract. You can substitute it for vanilla extract if you like and it will have a very subtle cherry flavor from the maraschino cherry juice. If you don’t want cherry at all, omit the cherry juice and thin out the frosting with milk as needed. If you do this and wish to have pink frosting, you’ll have to add a couple drops of food coloring, as the maraschino cherry juice adds the color naturally. Shew!

Melt-In-Your-Mouth Vegan White Chocolate Cranberry Hearts
3 Tablespoons Cocoa Butter
2 Tablespoons Sweetener Of Your Choice (I Used Powdered Sugar)
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Coconut Cream
20 whole Dried Cranberries

Melt cocoa butter and add sweetener, vanilla extract and coconut cream. Mix everything well.Put dried cranberries on the bottom of your molds and pour the white chocolate mixture over them. Put in the freezer or fridge until the hearts have hardened. Store in the fridge until you are ready to eat them.

Nutty Chocolate Chip Oatmeal Cookies
1-1/2 cup Dark Brown Sugar
1 cup Butter
1 whole Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1-1/4 cup Flour
1 cup Oats
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 cup Walnuts, Coarsely Chopped
12 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate Chips

Heat oven to 375ºF.In a large mixing bowl, beat brown sugar, butter, egg and vanilla. Stir in flour, oats and baking soda. Dough will be stiff. Stir in nuts and chocolate chips.Drop by teaspoonfuls onto ungreased baking sheet. Bake 8 minutes or until light brown around the edges. Let cool slightly and transfer to wire rack to cool completely.Makes 5 dozen cookies.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Matcha Panna Cotta with Muddled Raspberries
1 can (13 1/2 Oz. Size) Full Fat Coconut Milk
1-1/2 teaspoon Grass Fed Gelatin
6 ounces, weight Fresh Raspberries
3 Tablespoons Pure Maple Syrup, Divided
1 Tablespoon Matcha Powder

Place coconut milk in a medium saucepan and sprinkle gelatin across the top. Whisk once and set aside to bloom for 10 minutes.Meanwhile, in a small bowl, mash raspberries with 1 tablespoon of the maple syrup until a coarse puree. Divide between glass jars or ramekins.Over medium-low heat, warm coconut milk mixture, whisking to help the gelatin dissolve. While whisking, sprinkle in matcha and continue to stir until both gelatin and matcha are incorporated, and the mixture has a light foam on top, about 5 minutes. Be careful not to boil, you just want small bubbles on the surface. Remove from the heat and stir in the remaining 2 tablespoons of maple syrup.Strain the matcha coconut milk mixture through a fine mesh sieve into a 4-cup liquid measure or pitcher with a spout. Divide between the jars or ramekins, cover tightly and chill in the fridge for at least 4 hours or up to 4 days. Garnish with fresh or crushed dehydrated raspberries and/or coconut flakes.Note: The fine mesh sieve is helpful for catching any clumps of matcha. You can skip that step, just be warned that you may have small pockets of tea.

Chocolate-Rum-Raisin Muffins
2 Eggs
1/3 cups Sugar
5 drops Vanilla Essence
40 grams Unsalted Butter
50 grams Chocolate (Lindt 70%)
1/3 cups Flour
4 grams Baking Powder
20 grams Raisins, Golden
20 milliliters Rum

Preheat oven to 190ºC (375ºF). Butter a nonstick muffin pan.Whisk eggs. Add sugar and whisk well until mixtureis creamy. Add vanilla and whisk.Melt butter and chocolate in the microwave for 1 minute. Take it out, stir, and microwave 1 more minute.Sift flour and baking powder. Fold into the batter. Fold in melted butter and chocolate mixture. Finally, fold in raisins and rum.Fill muffin pan with batter, about 2/3 full. Bake for 20 minutes. Remove from oven and let cool 10 minutes.Invert tray onto a place and remove muffins. Cool on a wire rack before serving.

Strawberry Soup
400 grams Strawberries, Fresh
4 Tablespoons Honey
1/2 teaspoons Powdered Nutmeg
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/4 teaspoons Powdered Cardamom
50 milliliters Heavy Cream

Puree strawberries in a blender. Add honey, nutmeg, vanilla, and cardamom. Blend again.Add heavy cream and mix well, until creamy. Best when refrigerated before serving.

Aunt Rocky’s Chocolate Crunch Fat Bomb (Zero Carbs)
3/4 cups Coconut Oil, Softened
1/4 cups Salted Butter, Softened
2 Tablespoons FineNaturals Organic Cocoa Powder (or Other 0 Carb Cocoa)
1/2 teaspoons Instant Coffee Crystals Or Powder (or 1/4 Teaspoon Coffee Extract)
1/4 cups Powdered Erythritol
1/2 ounces, fluid (approximately 1/4 Cup) Lightly Crushed Plain Pork Rinds

Place coconut oil in large (4 cup) glass bowl or measuring cup. Add butter, cut into chunks for faster melting. Microwave for approximately 20 seconds, or until just soft enough to smooth with a whisk. You don’t want it melted, or the butter and oil will separate. If you accidentally melt it, put in refrigerator until it sets up enough that you can whisk it smooth.Add cocoa powder, coffee, and sweetener and whisk well. Set aside.Crush pork rinds using a rolling pin, or put in a bag and crush with your hands or the bottom of a pan. You want the pieces to be about the size of Rice Krispies cereal.Check to make sure the coconut and butter mixture is well cooled before adding the pork rinds. Once it is, stir crushed pork rinds in lightly, and spoon or mixture into molds. (I use a teaspoon to get mine into the small molds I use.) Freeze until set. Remove from molds and store frozen in zip bags or other freezer container.Tip: I use a mold set that has 15 holes, that hold around 2 teaspoons each. I got 22 cubes from this recipe. If you use a different mold, or different ingredients, your numbers will vary.Recipe inspired by “Nestle Crunch” Fat Bomb from Wheat Free Bliss.Nutritional information (estimates are per serving based on exact ingredients I used, calculated with a free online recipe analyzer): Each fat bomb: Calories 86, Total Fat 10 g, Saturated Fat 8 g, Total Carbohydrate 0 g, Dietary Fiber 0 g, New Carbs 0g, Sugars 0 g, Protein 0 g. Macros: 100% fat, 0% protein, 0% net carbs.© July 30, 2016 Roxana Lopez for Aunt Rocky’s

Loaded Puppy Chow Dessert
10 whole Oreo Cookies, Crumbled
10 cups Chex Mix (I Used The Rice Variety)
1/2 cups Regular M&Ms;
1 cup Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
3 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
1/2 cups Smooth Peanut Butter
1-1/4 cup Powdered Sugar

Get a large mixing bowl, one large enough to hold all of the cereal comfortably. Add crumbled Oreos, then cereal, then top with M&Ms.To another bowl, add chocolate chips, butter, and peanut butter. Place in a microwave and melt for about 90 seconds or until you have a smooth mixture. Give it a good stir, and if you need it to smooth out even more, add a few more seconds in the microwave.Get your powered sugar ready.Take the chocolate mixture and pour all over the cereal and quickly mix, then pour on the powdered sugar. Continue to mix until everything is coated. Pour the mixture onto a parchment-lined baking sheet and let cool.Serve in bowls and seal all leftovers in a bag.

Valentine’s Shortbread Cookies
2 ounces, weight Caster Sugar
5 ounces, weight Unsalted Butter
7 ounces, weight All-purpose Flour
1 pinch Salt
FOR THE ICING:
3-1/2 ounces, weight Confectioners Sugar
Cold Water, As Needed
2 drops Red Food Colouring
2 ounces, weight Melted White Chocolate

In a large bowl, beat sugar and butter until smooth. You can do this with an electric mixer to save your arms if you want!Sieve around 3/4 of the flour into the mixture and combine. Then take the mixture and place on a cold surface and lightly knead, incorporating the rest of your flour as you do.Place the dough between 2 sheets of baking paper, to stop it sticking to your surface or rolling pin. Gently roll out until it is approximately 1/2 inch thick.Using your cookie cutter or your knife, cut mixture into heart shapes and place on a baking tray covered with baking paper. You will likely need to re-roll your dough a couple of times to make all of your heart shapes, so try to do this touching the dough as little as possible, to prevent it from getting warm and greasy.Once all of the heart cookies have been placed on the baking try, place in the fridge for 1 hour. This will stiffen the dough up nicely before they go into the oven. At this point, preheat oven to 325ºF (170ºC).Remove cookies from the fridge and place into the oven. Cook for 15–20 minutes. Then will depend on the size of your cookies, but they should be removed from the edges of the cookies have browned slightly.Place the shortbread cookies on a cooling rack to cool completely before decorating.To decorate, sieve the icing sugar into a bowl and add a little cold water at a time, until the icing is a thick liquid consistency. Split the icing into 2 bowls and place a couple of drops of red food colouring into one of the bowls. Stir to turn the mixture pink.Using a mixture of the 2 icing colours and melted white chocolate, decorate the cookies however you like. Leave to set in the fridge for 20 minutes.

Dairy-Free Soy-Free Chocolate Bars
1 cup Cacao Powder
1 cup Coconut Oil, Melted
3 Tablespoons Cinnamon
1/4 cups Agave Nectar (vegan) Or 100% Pure Honey (paleo), Increase To 1/3 Cup For "Milk" Chocolate
1 teaspoon Vanilla, Increase To 1 1/2 Teaspoons For "Milk" Chocolate

Whisk cacao and melted coconut oil in a bowl. Add cinnamon and continue to whisk. Stir in agave nectar and vanilla, continue stirring.Pour into desired molds and refrigerate. Keep refrigerated.

Red Velvet Cupcakes
1-1/4 cup Cake Flour
1 Tablespoon Cocoa Powder (I Used Dutch Processed)
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened At Room Temperature
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Vegetable Or Canola Oil
1 whole Large Egg, At Room Temperature
1/2 cups Buttermilk At Room Temperature
1-1/2 teaspoon Red Food Coloring
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons White Vinegar
FOR THE FROSTING:
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese (softened At Room Temperature)
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened At Room Temperature
2 cups Powdered Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Bean Paste Or Vanilla Extract
1 pinch Salt
1 Tablespoon Sugar Pearls (optional)

Preheat oven to 350°F. Line a standard 12-cup cupcake pan with paper liners.In a large bowl, sift together the dry ingredients (flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, salt).In the bowl of a standing mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, beat butter and sugar over medium speed until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Stream in oil while mixing until combined. Add egg and beat until incorporated.In a small bowl, whisk buttermilk, food coloring and vanilla. Add about 1/3 of the flour mixture to the mixer, stirring over low speed. Stir in about 1/3 of the buttermilk mixture. Continue to alternate dry and wet ingredients until completely combined. Be sure not to over-mix. In a small bowl, stir together baking soda and vinegar, and immediately fold into the batter.Scoop batter into prepared cups, filling about 2/3 of the way up. Place on the center rack of the oven. Bake 16–20 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean.Place tin on a wire rack to cool. After about 5 minutes, turn out cupcakes onto the rack and cool completely.For the frosting, beat together cream cheese and butter over medium speed in the bowl of a standing mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Sift in sugar in several additions and mix until combined, starting at low speed and increasing as the mixture becomes more homogeneous. Stir in vanilla and salt.If desired, transfer the prepared frosting to a piping bag fitted with a closed star tip (I used an Ateco 846 tip). Transfer to the fridge until chilled and stiffer. To decorate, pipe starting in the center of the cupcake, working your way outwards in a circular motion. Gently pull away. Add sugar pearls on the top. Enjoy.

Mini Strawberry Heart Pies
2 Refrigerated Pie Crusts
1 cup Strawberry Jam
1 Egg
1 teaspoon Water
2 Tablespoons Sparkling Sugar
FOR THE GLAZE:
1/2 cups Powdered Sugar
1 Tablespoon Milk Or Heavy Cream
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
Sprinkles (optional)

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a large baking pan with parchment paper. Set aside.Gently unroll each pie crust onto a lightly floured surface. Using a heart-shaped cookie cutter, cut out an even number of hearts from each pie crust.Place half of hearts onto prepared baking pan. Spread about 1 tablespoon jam onto each heart on the baking pan. Take the remaining hearts and place over the heart with the jam. Using a fork, press down the edges of pie crust to lightly seal.In a small bowl, whisk egg and water. Brush over the tops of each heart. Sprinkle sparkling sugar over each heart.Bake for 18–20 minutes, or until hearts are golden. Remove from oven and let cool for 10 minutes on pan. Then remove to a wire rack to cool completely.When pies are cooled, prepare the glaze. In a small bowl, whisk powdered sugar, milk and vanilla extract.Take each mini pie and dunk into the glaze. Top with sprinkles, if desired. Enjoy!

Strawberry Galette with Chocolate Drizzle
1 pound Frozen Strawberries, Not Thawed
1 Tablespoon All-purpose Flour
2 Tablespoons White Granulated Sugar, Plus 1 Teaspoon For Sprinkling On Crust
1/2 teaspoons Lemon Zest
1 whole 9" Raw Pie Crust
1 whole Egg, Beaten
1/2 cups Chocolate Chips
2 teaspoons Cream

Preheat oven to 400ºF. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and set aside.In a medium bowl, combine strawberries, flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, and lemon zest. Toss until strawberries are coated in flour and sugar. Unroll pie crust and place it in the center of the prepared baking sheet. Pour strawberries into the center of the pie crust, leaving about a 2-inch border all around.Gently fold up edges of dough towards the base of the strawberries. Brush crust with beaten egg, then sprinkle remaining 1 teaspoon sugar on the crust. Place in the oven and bake for 35 to 40 minutes or until the crust is golden and crispy.After removing the galette from the oven, allow to cool for 5 minutes. While it is cooling, combine chocolate chips and cream in a small bowl. Microwave chocolate in 15-second intervals, stirring well after each interval, until chocolate is melted and smooth. Drizzle desired amount of chocolate over the top of the galette, and serve remaining chocolate on the side.Slice galette into four pieces and serve.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Cheesecake in a Jar with Fruit “Caviar”
FOR THE FRUIT CAVIAR:
200 grams Forest Fruits, Frozen
3 Tablespoons White Sugar
1 liter Water, Divided
10 grams Powdered Gelatin
2 Tablespoons Salt
Ice Cubes, For The Ice Bath
200 milliliters Vegetable Oil, Cold
FOR THE CHEESECAKE:
200 grams Whole Wheat Crackers, Ground
50 grams Butter, Melted
Additional Fruit, For Layering
250 grams Cream Cheese
2 Tablespoons Honey

For the the fruit caviar: Heat a sauce pan and add the frozen fruit, 100 milliliters of water, and white sugar. Simmer for about 10 minutes, stirring often and mashing the fruit. Save some fruit for decorating. After that, strain the fruit; we will use only the syrup for the caviar.Hydrate the powdered gelatin in 50 ml water for 10 minutes. Stir in the syrup until gelatin is completely dissolved. Then pour the syrup into a squeeze bottle.Prepare the ice bath. In a big bowl, add the rest of the water, salt, and ice. Pour the cold vegetable oil in a bowl and place it in the ice bath. Start to drop the syrup in the oil. The drops will solidify in contact with the cold oil. Using a spoon, collect the fruit bubbles, wash with cold water and set aside.For the the cheesecake: Combine crackers with melted butter. Place mixture in a jar and sprinkle some fruit.Mix cream cheese with honey and add to the jar. Decorate with fruit caviar.

Vanilla Cashew Dessert
1/2 cups Cashews
1-1/2 Tablespoon Maple Syrup, Divided
1/4 cups Vanilla Ice Cream
1/4 cups Peanut Butter
2 dashes Cinnamon
1 dash Salt
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1 Tablespoon Cacao Powder

For the crust, blend cashews (I use a Vitamix) into a fine powder. Add 1/2 tablespoon syrup. Blend until well combined. Press into the bottom of a lined dish (I don’t worry about crust sides or perfection).Scoop ice cream onto crust. (I do not recommend mashing together for aesthetic purposes. Trust me, it melts.) Use as much as desired. Layer peanut butter over ice cream, however much desired. Place in freezer while making last layer.For the chocolate layer on top, melt coconut oil over low heat. Take off heat. Add cacao powder and remaining 1 tablespoon maple syrup. Stir well. Pour, or spoon for more even dispersing, over the peanut butter layer. Let sit in freezer for 5 to 10 minutes before consuming.

Classic French Macaron with Vanilla Buttercream Filling
FOR THE MACARON SHELLS:
3/4 cups Almond Flour
1 cup Confectioners Sugar
2 Egg Whites, At Room Temperature
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
FOR THE VANILLA BUTTERCREAM FILLING:
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter
3/4 cups And 2 Tablespoons Confectioners' Sugar
1 teaspoon Milk
1/2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract

For the macaron shells: Combine almond flour and confectioners’ sugar in a bowl and whisk together. Pass mixture through a fine-mesh sieve, pressing down on clumps.In a large bowl, beat egg whites using a hand-mixer or stand-mixer on medium speed for 2 minutes until soft peaks form. Add granulated sugar and beat on high for 2 more minutes until stiff, glossy peaks form.Add vanilla and beat on high for another 30 seconds. Fold in dry ingredients and repeat until mixture is smooth and shiny and begins to run a little but not too runny. Think lava consistency.Take a pastry bag fitted with a ½ inch round tip and fill with the batter. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper and pipe batter into ¾-inch round circles, 1 inch apart. Tap the baking sheet firmly against the counter to release any air bubbles. Let stand at room temperature for 30 minutes until they form a skin.Preheat oven to 325ºF. Bake for 10–12 minutes, rotating halfway, until cookies have risen and just set. The cookies should be able to just come off the baking sheet when you try to lift them. Let cool for 5 minutes then transfer to wire rack and let cool completely.For the filling: Using a hand mixer or a stand mixer, cream butter until soft and smooth. Add powdered sugar, milk, and vanilla and mix until light and fluffy.Transfer the buttercream filling into a piping bag with a round tip. Pipe a swirl of filling on half the cookies. Sandwich cookies together with the remaining halves.

Peanut Butter Chocolate Fudge
1/2 cups Coconut Oil
1/2 cups Natural Peanut Butter
3/4 cups Cocoa Powder
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/3 cups Molasses
1/2 teaspoons Salt

In a small saucepan over low heat, melted coconut oil and peanut butter. Once melted, add cocoa powder, vanilla, molasses and salt. Stir to combine and then remove from the heat.Pour into an 8×8 baking pan lined with parchment paper. Put the pan in the fridge and allow the fudge to set for 3 hours.Once the fudge has set, remove the pan from the fridge. Remove the parchment paper from the pan and turn the fudge onto the counter. Slice into desired number of pieces and serve.

No-Bake Apple Mousse and Ricotta Cake
250 grams Whole Wheat Crackers
100 grams Butter, Melted
2 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar, Divided
6 Apples
2 Tablespoons White Sugar
1/2 Tablespoons Powdered Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Cornstarch
250 grams Ricotta Cheese
150 milliliters Green Apple Juice From The Store (Santal), Divided
200 milliliters Heavy Cream
5 grams Gelatine

Prepare a round cake tray. For the crust, add the crackers to a food processor and grind well. Add melted butter and 1 tablespoon of powdered sugar; combine. Using a spatula, press the crackers mixture onto the tray’s base.For the apple mousse, peel and grate the apples. Transfer into a saucepan and add white sugar and cinnamon. Cook over low heat for about 20 minutes. Add cornstarch and stir well; apple mixture will start to thicken. Set aside and let it cool for a few minutes.Using a hand mixer, mix apples at high speed for a few minutes until mousse-like in texture. Spoon the apple mousse over the crust and transfer the cake to the freezer for about 10 minutes.In the meantime, prepare the ricotta cream. Mixing ricotta cheese with 1/3 of the green apple juice; it will have a nice color. In a separate bowl, mix heavy cream with remaining 1 tablespoon of powdered sugar. Combine both mixtures and mix until smooth.In a small bowl, pour remaining green apple juice and add gelatine. Let it hydrate for about 10 minutes. Set over very low heat, stirring constantly, for 2–3 minutes, just until it dissolves; do not boil. Add the dissolved gelatine to the ricotta mixture.Remove the cake from the freezer and pour the cheese cream mixture on top. Refrigerate the cake for at least 3 hours before serving.

Practically Pre-Made Fruit Pizza
2 packages (16 1/2 Oz. Size) Refrigerated Sugar Cookie Dough
16 ounces, weight Cool Whip
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
Your Favorite Fruit, For Topping

Press sugar cookie dough into a 17 X 12 cookie sheet. Bake according to package directions until golden brown.Whip whipped topping, cream cheese, sugar and vanilla until smooth. Spread over cooled crust and top with desired fruit. I’ve got strawberries, kiwis and nectarines on this bad boy!

Oaty Raisin Peanut Butter Sandwich Cookies
FOR THE COOKIES:
1/2 cups Butter, At Room Temperature
1/4 cups Sugar
2 Large Eggs, Lightly Beaten
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Honey
1/4 cups Coconut Oil
1 cup Brown Flour
1 Tablespoon Cornstarch
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/2 teaspoons Mixed Spice
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 cup Rolled Oats
1 cup Raisins
FOR THE PEANUT BUTTER FILLING:
2-1/2 Tablespoons Peanut Butter (Unsalted And Sugar-Free)
1 Tablespoon Coconut Oil
1/2 Tablespoons Honey

For the cookies: Preheat the oven to 170ºC (340ºF). Line two baking trays with greaseproof paper.In a bowl, cream butter and sugar with an electric beater. Beat in eggs one at a time until well combined. Stir in the vanilla extract, honey and coconut oil.In another bowl, stir flour, cornstarch, spices, baking soda and salt. Pour flour mixture into the butter mixture and stir in. Stir in oats and then the raisins.Place the cookies on the baking trays by dropping 1 tablespoonful of mixture onto the tray for each cookie. Flatten to about 1cm with the back of a tablespoon.Bake the cookies in the middle of the oven for 15 minutes until golden. Take out of the oven and allow to cool for a few minutes on the baking tray. Transfer to cooking racks to cool completely.For the peanut butter filling: Beat peanut butter, coconut oil and honey together in a bowl with a metal spoon until mixture lightens a little and is glossy. Spread a layer of filling on the bottom of one cookie with a butter knife, and sandwich closed with another cookie.Store in an airtight container. They will keep for a few days.

Giant Linzer Cookie
2-1/2 cups Unbleached All-purpose Flour
1/2 cups Almond Flour
1 cup Sugar
1 cup Salted Butter, Cut Into Chunks
1 Egg
3/4 teaspoons Almond Extract
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 jar (13 Oz. Size) Raspberry Preserves

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease an 11-inch heart-shaped pan. Line with parchment paper; grease the parchment.Whisk flours together. Set aside.Beat sugar and butter together until light and fluffy. Beat in egg and extracts, scraping down the sides and bottom of the bowl as needed.In three additions, add flour in low speed. Mix just until combined.Divide dough evenly into halves. Press half of the dough into the prepared pan. Use the back of a spoon, an offset spatula, or your fingers to press evenly.Bake for 20 minutes until edges are golden and the middle is baked through. Remove from oven and let sit for 10 minutes in the pan. Use the edge of the parchment to gently slide the cookie onto a wire rack to cool completely.Repeat with the remaining dough. As soon as the cookie comes out of the oven, press a large heart-shaped cookie cutter in the center and remove. Let cool in the pan 10 minutes, then use the parchment to gently slide the cookie onto the cooling rack.Once both cookies are cooled, remove the parchment. Place the bottom cookie on a serving platter or large cutting board. Spread on raspberry preserves evenly. Place the cookie with the cut out heart on top. Dust the cookie liberally with powdered sugar.Cut into pieces and serve.

Spicy Double Chocolate Chip Cookies
1-2/3 cup All-purpose Flour
1/4 cups Cocoa Powder
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Cayenne Pepper
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Melted And Cooled Slightly
1 cup Sugar
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
3 Tablespoons Almond Milk
1/2 cups Dark Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Prepare 2 large baking sheets and set aside.In a large bowl, whisk flour, cocoa power, cinnamon, cayenne, baking soda and salt.In a separate bowl, stir butter and sugar until combined. Add vanilla and almond milk.Pour wet ingredients into dry ingredients and mix to combine. Finally, add dark chocolate chips.Scoop dough in even portions with a spoon. Roll into a ball and place on the baking sheet. Bake for 10–12 minutes.

Dark Chocolate Dried Apricots
1-2/3 cup Dairy-free Dark Chocolate Chips (about 10 Oz)
50 Dried Apricots
Coarse Sea Salt

Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.Melt dark chocolate. I recommend using a double boiler but you can melt it any way you please. For the double boiler method, any heatproof bowl such as stainless steel or glass will do, just nestle it over a saucepan of simmering water, making sure the water is not touching the bottom of the bowl. Place the chocolate chips in the bowl, stirring over the simmering water until almost entirely melted.Using a toothpick, dip each dried apricot into the melted chocolate and swirl it around until it’s completely coated. Drop the chocolate-covered apricot on the parchment paper then sprinkle some sea salt on top. Repeat with remaining apricots.Let the dark chocolate covered apricots cool and harden on the parchment paper for about 1 hour. then place them in a tupperware and keep in the refrigerator.

Double Chocolate Cherry Thumbprint Cookies
1/4 cups Packed Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Butter, Softened
1 whole Egg Yolk
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/3 cups Dark Cocoa Powder
3/4 cups Plus 2 Tablespoons, All-purpose Flour
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2/3 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
1 cup Dark Chocolate Chips
1/2 cups Dried Bing Cherries

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Cream butter and sugar in a stand mixer until butter is pale in color, about 2 minutes. Add egg yolk and vanilla, mix until everything is well incorporated.Sift cocoa powder and flour before measuring. Use a knife to make level measurements of both, and add each to a medium-sized bowl. Add salt and whisk all the ingredients together. Add the dry mixture to the wet ingredients and mix until everything is incorporated, scraping down the sides of the mixer bowl.Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone mat. Form the dough into 1-inch balls and roll in granulated sugar. Place on baking sheet and use your finger to make a depression in the cookie. Don’t depress so much that you end up touching the baking sheet.Bake for 10–12 minutes. Remove from the oven and depress the cookies again. Sometimes in the cooking process, the thumbprint will raise a bit. Immediately remove to a wire rack to cool.Heat cream in a small saucepan over medium heat until you see bubbles forming around the edges of the pot. Do not let the cream come to a boil. Add chocolate chips to a small bowl. Pour the hot cream over the chocolate chips, and let sit for 1 minute. Using a whisk, mix the cream and chocolate chips together until smooth.Place one dried bing cherry in each of the depressions of the thumbprint cookies. Top with 1 teaspoon ganache, so that the cherry is completely covered and the ganache touches the actual cookie. You want to cover the cherry completely and have it secure in the cookie, so it remains a surprise for the recipient!

Homemade Chocolate Truffles
200 grams Dark Chocolate
120 milliliters Heavy Cream
30 grams Butter
2 Tablespoons Rum
Powdered Cocoa, Sprinkles And Chocolate, For Coating

Start by breaking the chocolate into small pieces and set aside. Then, in a saucepan, pour heavy cream and butter and set on medium heat, stirring constantly. When it’s about to boil, pour the cream mixture over the chocolate. Add rum and wait 1 or 2 minutes. Using a spatula, stir the chocolate until it completely melts. Refrigerate the mixture for at least 3 hours.After 3 hours, using an ice cream scoop and your hands, make small balls and decorate as you wish. I used powdered cocoa, sprinkles and chocolate.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Easy Nutella Brownies
1-1/2 cup Nutella
2 Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2/3 cups Flour
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 cups Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 325ºF. Grease a square 8×8 baking dish and set aside.Combine Nutella, eggs, and vanilla in stand mixer until well combined.In a small bowl, sift flour, salt, and baking soda. Fold the dry ingredients into the Nutella mixture until just combined. Add chocolate chips and gently mix in.Pour the brownie batter into the greased baking dish and bake 22–25 minutes. Let cool before serving.

Chocolate Hand Pies
2 whole Sheets Store-bought Puff Pastry
1-1/2 cup Bittersweet Chocolate Chips
1 whole Egg White
1 teaspoon Water
Turbinado Sugar, For Sprinkling

Preheat oven to 400°F.Unfold puff pastry and roll out evenly on a lightly floured surface. Cut into size 4-inch rounds. Place rounds on parchment-lined baking sheet. Repeat with second puff pastry sheet.Heat chocolate in the microwave, 30 seconds at a time until melted and smooth.Whisk egg white and water together and brush along the edges of each round. Spoon 1 tablespoon of chocolate right in the center. Fold the rounds in half and press the edges together with your fingers. Crimp the edges with a fork. Pierce the top with a fork 3 times to let the steam escape and sprinkle with turbinado sugar.Bake for 15 minutes until nice and golden brown.Pour remaining chocolate in a zip-top bag and snip off a small bit of the corner (heat up chocolate for 30 seconds in the microwave if needed before pouring into the bag). Drizzle over the hand pies. Dig in and enjoy!Recipe slightly adapted from Hostess at Heart.

Chocolate Truffles
400 grams Bittersweet Chocolate
300 milliliters Heavy Cream
20 grams Cocoa Powder, For Coating
20 grams Desiccated Coconut Or Coconut Flour, For Coating
25 grams Crushed Walnuts Or Your Favourite Nuts, For Coating

Chop chocolate into very small pieces (this is so it will melt easily later) and place in a glass bowl.Place a small saucepan on a medium heat and pour in the cream. Bring the cream to the boil, then pour around half of it over the chocolate and leave for around 15 seconds. This is so the chocolate warms up slowly.Pour the rest of the cream into the bowl and leave for around 2 minutes. At this point all of the chocolate should be pretty much melted. Whisk until you have a smooth and shiny ganache.Place the bowl of ganache into the fridge for 2–3 hours, giving the ganache time to cool and stiffen.Remove the bowl from the fridge and start making the truffle balls. Ideally, use a melon baller, but it can also easily be done with a teaspoon. Scoop out a small ball of ganache and, on a cold surface, quickly roll into a ball. I like to run my hands under cold water before doing this, sot that the chocolate doesn’t warm up too much. Place each of the truffles onto a baking tray covered with parchment paper.Place the truffle balls back into the fridge overnight (or for at least 4 hours).When you remove the truffles from the fridge, they are ready to be coated. If you have a couple of misshapen truffle balls, give them another light roll before coating them.Once the truffle balls have been coated, place back into the fridge until you are ready to serve them!

Peanut Butter Cookies
1 cup Butter
1 cup Peanut Butter
1 cup Granulated Sugar
1/3 cups Brown Sugar
1 whole Large Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
Granulated Sugar For Rolling (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 F.Cream butter, peanut butter, granulated sugar, and brown sugar until light and fluffy. Add egg and vanilla extract and mix well. Add flour, baking powder and baking soda and mix to combine.Gently roll the dough into 1-inch size balls and roll each ball in additional granulated sugar to coat. To make more uniform-sized cookies, I like to use a small 1-ounce ice cream style scoop.Place sugar-coated balls on a parchment lined baking sheet and bake for 10–12 minutes. Remove from the oven and place the baking sheet on a wire rack to cool. Freezes well.

Hazelnut Nutella Cookie Bars
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt, Plus More For Sprinkling On Bars If Desired
1/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, At Room Temperature
1/2 cups Packed Light Brown Sugar
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1 Large Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
3/4 cups Nutella
1/2 cups Chopped Hazelnuts, Skins Removed

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease an 8-inch square baking dish with cooking spray. Set aside.In a medium bowl, whisk flour, salt, and baking powder. Set aside.In the bowl of a stand mixer, cream butter and sugars on high speed until light and fluffy, about 2–3 minutes. Add egg and vanilla extract. Mix well. With the mixer on low, slowly add flour mixture. Mix until combined.Gently press half of dough into bottom of prepared baking dish. Evenly spread Nutella over the dough. Sprinkle remaining dough over the top, making sure you cover the entire surface. Press gently to form the top layer. Sprinkle chopped hazelnuts over the top and gently press again. Sprinkle with additional sea salt, if desired.Bake the bars for 25 to 30 minutes or until the top is golden brown. Cool completely and cut into squares.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Greek Baklava
FOR THE SYRUP:
1-1/2 cup Water
1-1/2 cup Sugar
1/2 cups Honey
1/2 cups Orange Juice
FOR THE BAKLAVA:
1 pound Walnuts, Chopped
1/2 cups Sugar
1 Tablespoon Cinnamon
3/4 cups Butter, Melted
1 pound Filo Dough

Note: Make the syrup first and refrigerate for several hours or overnight. It is important to pour cold syrup over hot baklava.For the syrup: In a medium-sized sauce pan, whisk water, sugar, honey and orange juice over medium high heat. Bring to a boil; turn heat to medium low and let simmer for 15 to 20 minutes. Let cool.For the baklava: Heat oven to 350ºF. Chop the nuts in a food processor; place in a medium bowl. Add sugar and cinnamon. Set aside.Butter a 9 x 13 baking pan. Add 8 to 10 sheets of filo, buttering each sheet. Sprinkle about 2/3 cup of the nut mixture over the buttered filo then cover with a sheet of filo. Butter the filo and add another 2/3 cup of the nut mixture. Alternate nuts and filo, buttering each sheet. Save 8 to 10 sheets of filo for the top. Butter remaining top sheets as you did the bottom ones.Cut into diamonds with a sharp knife, starting at one corner of the pan and cutting diagonal rows 1 inch apart. Repeat from other side to make diamonds.Bake at 350ºF for 1 hour or until golden brown. Remove from oven and evenly pour cold syrup over the hot baklava. Let stand for 1 to 2 hours. At this point, baklava can be cut into individual diamond-shaped pieces and served or refrigerated.

Apple Cider Bundt Cake with Sweet Brandy Glaze
4 Medium Apples, Peeled, Cored And Chopped
2 cups Granulated Sugar
3 cups All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Soda
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1/2 teaspoons Allspice
1/2 cups Raisins
1/2 cups Hazelnuts, Finely Chopped
1 cup Salted Butter, Melted And Cooled
2 Large Eggs
FOR THE GLAZE:
1 cup Apple Cider
1-1/2 cup Confectioners Sugar
2 Tablespoons Brandy

Preheat oven to 350°F and grease a nonstick Bundt pan with enough butter to fill in all the nooks and crannies. I find it easiest to get in there with my fingers to make sure each area is fully coated, and so far it seems to make for easy removal later.Mix chopped apples with sugar in a medium-sized bowl and set aside for about 15 minutes, stirring occasionally. This allows the fruit to macerate, which is a technical way of saying “release its delicious juices and get wonderfully gooey.”In your largest bowl, combine dry ingredients: flour, baking soda, cinnamon, nutmeg, and allspice. Add raisins and nuts.Once butter is fully cooled, whisk it with eggs in a separate bowl. With a wooden spoon, fold the egg-butter mixture into the dry ingredients, followed by the apples. The batter may be very thick; I usually end up using my hands to make sure everything is fully combined.Pour batter into the prepared Bundt pan. Bake for about 45 minutes, until an inserted fork or toothpick comes out clean (I find my oven always takes longer than most recipes suggest—just keep adding time in small increments until done, but be careful not to over-bake!). Allow the cake to cool for 10 minutes in the pan before inverting it onto a wire rack. Cool completely before applying the glaze.To make the sweet brandy glaze, start by bringing the apple cider to a rolling boil in a small sauce pan. Boil until reduced by half, and then let cool slightly to room temperature. Add confectioners’ sugar and brandy and whisk until incorporated. The glaze will be very thin. Drizzle (or pour) all over your delicious cake while still somewhat warm. I added a small dusting of confectioners sugar; feel free to do the same. Store in the fridge, or serve immediately!

Raw Vegan Marble Chocolates For Valentine’s Day
1/3 cups Cocoa Butter
4 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar
2 Tablespoons Cocoa Powder
1 Tablespoon Tahini Or Other Nut Butter
1 teaspoon Coconut Oil (optional)

Melt cocoa butter and distribute it among three different cups in the proportions you want. I left the most butter for the dark chocolate.For the dark chocolate: Add some of the powdered sugar and the cocoa powder to the cocoa butter and mix everything well.For the white chocolate: Add some of the sugar and the coconut oil to the cocoa butter and whisk them well.For the tahini chocolate: Mix the cocoa butter with the tahini and the rest of the sugar.Since the melted cocoa butter is runnier than the melted chocolate, I advise you to let it cool down a bit before you start pouring it into the molds. Drop a little from each chocolate mixture into the mold and use a toothpick to stir lightly to create this marble effect. Let the chocolates cool down in the fridge or freezer.They are unique and delicious. I put each chocolate into a small glassine paper cup. I also found an old heart-shaped candy box. I think my chocolates look very cute in it.

Triple Chocolate Peanut Butter Cheesecakes
FOR THE CRUST:
9 Chocolate Graham Cracker Sheets
3 ounces, weight Chopped Bittersweet Chocolate (or Bittersweet Chocolate Chips)
2 Tablespoons Dark Brown Sugar
4-1/2 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, melted
FOR THE GANACHE LAYER:
1/2 cups Heavy Cream Or Heavy Whipping Cream
8 ounces, weight Chopped Bittersweet Chocolate (or Bittersweet Chocolate Chips)
FOR THE CHEESECAKE LAYER:
6 ounces, fluid Cream Cheese, Room Temperature
1/2 cups Peanut Butter
6 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar
1/3 cups Sour Cream
2 Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE GANACHE TOPPING:
3/4 cups Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips (or Bittersweet)
2 teaspoons Espresso Powder Or Coffee Granules, Optional
1/4 cups Heavy Cream Or Heavy Whipping Cream

For the crust: Spray a 12-cup muffin tin lightly with baking spray (or line with paper liners) and set aside.In the bowl of a food processor, blend chocolate graham crackers, chopped chocolate, and brown sugar until ground into fine crumbs. Pour melted butter in a steady stream and continue to process until crumbs begin to stick together. You may need to scrape the bowl a couple of times to ensure that the butter gets thoroughly combined.Place about 2 tablespoons of crust into each muffin cup. Using your fingers, press and spread crusts evenly over the bottom of each cup. Place in freezer while preparing ganache layer.For the ganache layer: Place cream in a medium-sized saucepan set over medium heat and bring to a simmer. Remove pan from heat and whisk in chopped chocolate until mixture is completely smooth.Remove crusts from freezer and pour about 1 tablespoon ganache over each crust and spread. You will probably have some ganache left over; I will leave what becomes of it to your discretion (eating it with a spoon or dipping in graham crackers is totally allowed in my book).Return to freezer to chill while making cheesecake layer, at least 15 minutes.For the cheesecake layer: Preheat oven to 325°F.In a medium or large size mixing bowl, using a handheld mixer (or you can use a stand mixer, but I think the handheld might be better in this case), beat cream cheese, peanut butter, and granulated sugar until thoroughly combined and fluffy. Mix in sour cream and then the eggs, one at a time. Beat in vanilla and mix until smooth.Remove crusts from freezer and divide cheesecake batter evenly between the crusts. Bake cheesecakes for 25 minutes, or until slightly firm to the touch and tops appear dry. Transfer to a cooling rack and let cool for about 45 minutes then transfer to fridge. Allow to chill in fridge for at least 2 hours, but preferably 3 to 4 hours or more.For the ganache topping: Place chocolate chips and espresso powder or coffee granules in a small bowl. Heat cream in a small microwave safe dish or bowl or cup for about 30 seconds. Pour over chocolate chips and let sit for about 5 minutes, then whisk until smooth.Run a small knife (a grapefruit knife works well, if you have one) around the edges of each cheesecake and transfer to a serving plate or platter. Top each cheesecake with ganache and gently spread, leaving some room on the sides. I would say use probably no more than 1 tablespoon of ganache on each cheesecake. (You may end up with a little extra ganache. I won’t judge if you use the rest of it on your own personal cheesecake.)Place cheesecakes in fridge for about 30 minutes to allow ganache to set (alternatively, you can freeze for 15 minutes for speedier ganache setting). Keep in fridge until ready to serve.

Grain-Free Almond Chocolate Chip Cookies
1 cup All-natural Almond Butter
1/2 cups Coconut Sugar
1 Egg
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Almond Extract (optional)
1/2 cups Chocolate Chips (paleo Approved If Necessary)

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Mix all ingredients in a large bowl. Scoop with a mini ice cream scooper onto a parchment-lined cookie sheet. Bake for about 9–11 minutes.

Monster Cookie Brownie Bars
3/4 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
3/4 cups Light Brown Sugar, Packed
1/4 cups Plus 2 Tablespoons, Granulated Sugar
1 cup Plus 2 Tablespoons Creamy Peanut Butter
2 Large Eggs
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
3/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1-3/4 cup Plus 2 Tablespoons, All-purpose Flour
3/4 cups Quick Oats
1-1/2 cup M&Ms
3/4 cups Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
1 box (about 18 Oz. Size) Brownie Mix, Prepared According To Instructions, Or Your Favorite Recipe (See Note)

Preheat oven to 350°F. Line a 9×13 baking dish with parchment paper, and spray with cooking spray. Set aside.In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, or using a hand-held mixer and large mixing bowl, cream butter and sugars together on medium speed until combined, about 2–3 minutes. Add peanut butter, eggs, and vanilla, mixing to combine and scraping down sides of bowl as needed.With the mixer on low speed, mix in baking soda and flour, mixing until just combined. With a rubber spatula, fold in quick oats, M&Ms, and chocolate chips. Set aside.Prepare brownie batter according to recipe directions.Press half of cookie dough evenly in the bottom of the pan. Pour brownie batter on top and then crumble remaining cookie dough evenly over brownie batter.Bake for 47–55 minutes, or until a toothpick comes out with moist crumbs when inserted. Cover the bars with foil if you notice the cookie top getting brown early (you might check around 30–40 minutes). Remove from oven and place on a cooling rack. Let cool almost completely before removing and serving.Note: Make sure the brownie recipe you use yields a 9×13 pan of brownies.

Strawberry Gluten Free Chocolate Cake for 2
3/4 cups Coconut Sugar
10 Tablespoons Unsweetened Apple Sauce
2 Large Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
14 Tablespoons Almond Flour (90g)
1/4 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
2 Tablespoons Coconut Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
5 Tablespoons Almond Coconut Dark Chocolate Spread
4 Large Strawberries, Sliced, Plus Additional For Topping

Preheat oven to 350ºF and line the bottom of 2 8×8 inch pans with parchment paper, spraying the sides with cooking spray.In a large bowl, using an electric hand mixer, beat coconut sugar and apple sauce until moistened. Add eggs and vanilla and beat again until well mixed.Add almond flour, cocoa powder, coconut flour, baking powder and salt. Whisk until well mixed, making sure there are no clumps of cocoa powder.Divide the batter between the pans and spread out evenly. Bake until cakes darken, edges pull away from the sides, and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Let cool completely on the counter.Once completely cooled, use a 3-inch biscuit cutter to cut out 6 circles from the pans. (You will not need all the cake here—I highly recommend mixing it with more chocolate spread and making cake balls! It’s also great over ice cream!)Place one of the circles bottom-side up on a plate. Spread 2 1/2 teaspoons of the chocolate coconut spread on top of it evenly. Place 1 of the strawberries (all the slices from one strawberry) on the cake. Then, spread 1/2 teaspoon of the chocolate spread very thinly on the bottom side of another circle. Place this circle, chocolate-side-down, on top of the strawberries, pressing very lightly to adhere it. Repeat the process.Once you get to the top layer, spread 1/2 tablespoon of the chocolate spread on top and garnish with additional strawberries. Repeat with the other mini cake! Devour!Note: As always, I highly recommend weighing flour to ensure results.

Vegan White Chocolate Snowflakes
3 Tablespoons Cocoa Butter
1 Tablespoon Coconut Oil (optional)
2 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar
4 Tablespoons Shredded Coconut
3 Tablespoons Chopped Pistachios
2 Tablespoons Dried Fruit And Candied Fruit

Melt cocoa butter and coconut oil. Add sugar and mix everything well. Add shredded coconut and mix again.You can add the nuts and the dried fruit to the mixture, or put them at the bottom of the silicone mold, so they will be visible when you take your chocolates out of the mold.Pour the mixture into the molds and freeze for 30–40 minutes, refrigerate until hard.

Coffee and Rum Cheesecake
150 grams Whole Wheat Crackers, Crushed
50 grams Butter, Melted
4 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar, Divided
250 grams Cream Cheese
150 milliliters Heavy Cream, Divided
2 Eggs
100 milliliters Rum
70 milliliters Prepared Coffee
1 teaspoon Instant Coffee
4 Tablespoons Flour
1 Tablespoon Powdered Cocoa
100 grams Chocolate

Preheat oven to 180ºC (355ºF) and prepare a round cake pan.For the crust, combine crackers, melted butter and 1 tablespoon of powdered sugar. Spread in the baking pan, pressing evenly. Bake for 10 minutes.In a mixing bowl, add cheese, 2/3 of the heavy cream, remaining sugar, eggs, rum, coffee (prepared and instant) and mix well.In a separate bowl, combine white flour and powdered cocoa and gradually add it to the cheese mixture.Pour onto the baked crust. Place a small pot of water on the bottom rack of the oven (it will prevent the cheesecake from cracking). Place cheesecake on a rack above the water and bake for about 25 minutes.For the chocolate ganache, melt chocolate. Add remaining heavy cream and stir until chocolate is completely melted and ganache is creamy and shiny. Let it cool and decorate the cake.

2-Ingredient Banana Kiwi Sorbet Scoops
3 Bananas
7 Kiwis

Peel and slice bananas. Slice kiwis in half and scoop out the flesh with a tablespoon. Place the fruit in an airtight container in the freezer overnight, or for at least 4 hours.Take the fruit out of the freezer about 5–10 minutes before you blend it. This will differ slightly depending on how warm or cold your room temperature is.When the fruit is just starting to soften on the outside, place it in a blender and pulse 6 to 8 times, until the mixture is smooth but the kiwi seeds are still intact.Pour the mixture into a loaf tin and place in the freezer for about 30 minutes until set. Scoop out the sorbet with an ice cream scoop and serve in little cups, bowls or ice cream cones.

Mini Skillet Peach Pies
10 whole Peaches
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Brown Sugar
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon Powder
1 Tablespoon Butter, Unsalted, Room Temperature
2 whole Pillsbury Refrigerated Pie Crusts, Thawed

Preheat oven to 350°F. Over medium-high heat, boil water in a large pot. Place peaches in boiling water and blanch for about 1 minute. Using a slotted spoon, transfer peaches to a bowl with ice and water. Once peaches are cooled, peel the softened skin. Slice peaches in In a large bowl, toss peaches with granulated sugar, brown sugar, lemon juice and cinnamon.Roll out each pie crust and cut into Shape each portion of dough into a ball and, using a rolling pin, roll into small circles. Place each circle over a small skillet. Trim and flute edges. Divide fruit mixture among skillets.Bake for 50–60 minutes, until crust is golden brown. Take out and cool for 10 minutes before slicing.Serve with ice cream or whipped cream.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Peanut Butter Protein Cookies
1 cup Creamy Peanut Butter
2/3 cups Coconut Sugar
2 Eggs
2 Scoops Vanilla Protein Powder

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and set aside.Combine peanut butter, coconut sugar, eggs, and vanilla protein powder in a large bowl and mix together until consistency resembles cookie dough. (Some peanut butters can be creamier than others. If your mixture looks a little too liquidy, you can add a little more protein powder; if it looks too dry and crumbly, you can add a little more peanut butter.)Scoop out about 2 tablespoons of the batter and roll it into a ball using your hands. You may need to wet your hands with a few drops of water to keep the batter from sticking. Flatten the ball between your palms and then place on the prepared cookie sheet. Repeat with the remaining dough, leaving space in between the cookies on the baking sheet.Using a fork, press down gently on each cookie to create criss-cross marks. If the fork sticks, you can dip it in water as necessary.Transfer the cookie sheet into the oven and bake for 10–12 minutes, or until the edges of the cookies just slightly start to turn brown. Remove from the oven and let sit for a couple minutes to set before moving to a cooling rack to cool completely.

Peanut Butter Oatmeal Bites
2 cups Quick Oats
1/2 cups All Natural Peanut Butter
6 Tablespoons Honey
4 Tablespoons Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips

Combine all of the ingredients in a large bowl. Form into tablespoon size balls. Using your hands works best.Store in the refrigerator until serving.

Matcha Brownies
1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1/4 cups High Quality Matcha (green Tea Powder)
1/4 teaspoons Fine Salt
1/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
8 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature
1 cup Granulated Sugar
2 Large Eggs
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract

Preheat oven to 350ºF and spray an 8-inch square metal cake pan with Baker’s Joy.In a mixing bowl, whisk flour, matcha (green tea powder), salt, and baking powder; set aside. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a BeaterBlade attachment, cream the butter and sugar until fully incorporated. Add eggs and vanilla and mix completely. Add the flour mixture and mix just until no traces of flour remain.Pour batter into prepared pan and spread into an even layer. Bake for 20–25 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Allow to cool completely before cutting with a serrated knife.

Banana Split Dessert
1-1/2 cup Crushed Graham Cracker Crumbs
3 Tablespoons Butter, Melted
1 pint Light Whipping Cream
3 Tablespoons Sugar
3 whole Bananas, Sliced
1 can (20 Oz. Size) Crushed Pineapple, Drained
1-1/2 cup Strawberries, Sliced (If Frozen, Thaw And Drain Well)
1-1/2 cup Blueberries, (If Frozen, Thaw And Drain Well)

Combine graham cracker crumbs with melted butter. Press into the bottom of a 9 x 13 baking dish. Refrigerate for 20 minutes.Whip cream until stiff peaks form. Beat in sugar. Refrigerate while you prepare the fruit.Spread half of the whipping cream on top of the graham cracker crust. Layer bananas on top; then spread drained pineapple. Top with strawberries and blueberries. Spread remaining whipping cream on top.Refrigerate for several hours. Easy and delicious! Enjoy!

4-Ingredient Peanut Butter Chocolate Fudge
3 Tablespoons Cocoa Butter
2 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar
4 Tablespoons Peanut Butter
1/4 bars (100g Size) Chocolate

Melt cocoa butter. Add sugar and mix well. Add peanut butter and mix again.Pour mixture into your container of choice. Since I used a plastic box, I covered it with plastic wrap in order take the fudge out easily.Melt the chocolate and pour it in a very thin stream all over the peanut butter mixture. Take a toothpick and swirl it around.Put the fudge in the freezer for a few hours or until it hardens completely. Cut it and enjoy!

Raspberry Caramel Brownies
3/4 cups Sugar
3/4 cups Butter
2 whole Eggs
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1/2 cups Hershey’s Natural Unsweetened Cocoa
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 cup Kraft Caramel Bits
12 ounces, weight Frozen Raspberries, Thawed And Drained
1 Tablespoon Cornstarch
1/4 cups Powdered Sugar, Sprinkled On Top

Heat oven to 350ºF.Beat sugar and butter. Mix in eggs. Add flour, cocoa and baking powder. Beat well.Spread batter in a greased 9 x 13 baking pan. Place Kraft caramel bits in a microwavable container. Microwave on high for 1 minute; stir and microwave for another minute or until melted. Drizzle melted caramel over the brownie batter, working quickly. Use a butter knife to swirl caramel into batter evenly.Bake for 15 minutes. Remove from oven.While brownies are baking, place thawed, undrained berries into a small saucepan. Add cornstarch and turn heat to medium. Stir constantly until berries are thickened, about 5 to 6 minutes.Spread berries evenly over brownie and return to oven. Bake another 12 to 15 minutes or until toothpick inserted near center comes out clean.Let cool thoroughly; sprinkle with powdered sugar and cut into squares.

Lemon Cornmeal Cake
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1/3 cups Yellow Cornmeal
3-1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Kosher Salt
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1 cup Buttermilk
3 Large Eggs
2 teaspoons Lemon Zest
1/2 teaspoons Almond Extract
1/2 cups Grapeseed Oil (or Another Light Flavoured Oil)
FOR THE GLAZE:
1 cup Confectioners Sugar
2 Tablespoons Fresh Squeezed Lemon Juice
1 Tablespoon Lemon Zest

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line the bottom of a 9-inch round cake pan with parchment paper (I traced the bottom of the pan with a pencil and cut out the paper). Spray the bottom and the sides of the pan with cooking spray. Set aside.In a medium bowl, whisk flour, cornmeal, baking powder, and salt.In another medium bowl, whisk sugar, buttermilk, eggs, lemon zest and almond extract.Slowly mix dry ingredients into wet ingredients with a rubber spatula. Fold grapeseed oil into the batter, making sure it’s completely incorporated.Pour the batter into the prepared pan and bake for about 30 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center of the cake comes out clean.Once you have removed the cake from the oven, run a sharp knife around the edges of the pan. Holding the cake pan on top of a wire rack, invert the cake onto the wire rack. Place another wire rack on top of the cake then invert again so the cake is now upright. Let cool completely.To make the glaze, whisk the powdered sugar with lemon juice and zest until smooth. Once cake has cooled, pour the glaze on the top of the cake and serve!

Wafers and Lemon Cheesecake
15 Vanilla Wafers
100 grams Powdered Sugar
2 Eggs
1 pinch Salt
1 Tablespoon Lemon Zest
2 Tablespoons Lemon Juice
250 grams Mascarpone
250 grams Ricotta

Preheat oven to 180ºC (355ºF). Line a baking tray with parchment and arrange the wafers on the base. Make sure there are no gaps between the wafers.In a bowl, add sugar, eggs, salt, lemon zest and juice, mascarpone, and ricotta. Mix well until smooth and creamy.Pour mixture on top of the wafers and bake for 20 minutes. Refrigerate at least 2 hours before serving.

Healthy Pumpkin Coffee Cake
FOR THE TOPPING:
2/3 cups Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Flour
1 pinch Salt
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 cup Chopped Walnuts
4 teaspoons Melted Butter
FOR THE COFFEE CAKE:
1 cup Pumpkin Puree
3/4 cups Greek Yogurt
2 Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1/2 cups Sugar
1/4 cups Brown Sugar
1 cup Whole Wheat Flour
1/2 cups Oat Flour
2 Tablespoons Flaxseed Meal
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1/2 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg

Preheat oven to 350°F. Lightly grease a bundt pan and set aside.To make the topping. combine sugar, flour, salt, cinnamon, and walnuts. Add melted butter, stirring just until well combined. Set the topping aside.For the coffee cake, in a medium size bowl, whisk pumpkin puree, yogurt, eggs, and vanilla until combined. Add sugar and brown sugar.In a large bowl, combine flour, oat flour, flaxseed meal, baking soda, baking powder, salt, and spices. Add wet ingredients to dry and mix until just combined.Pour into prepared bundt pan. Sprinkle the topping over the batter. Bake 30–35 minutes, or until toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

No-Bake Paleo Chocolate Chip Coconut Bars
1 cup Almond Butter
1 cup Coconut Oil, Melted
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup (paleo) Or Agave Nectar (vegan)
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/8 teaspoons Sea Salt
2 cups Shredded Coconut
1 cup Gluten-free And Dairy-free Mini Chocolate Chips

In a large mixing bowl, combine almond butter, melted coconut oil, maple syrup, vanilla extract, and sea salt. Beat on medium speed with an electric mixer until smooth.Add shredded coconut, blending until just evenly mixed. Stir in chocolate chips by hand or use electric mixer on lowest speed possible.Pour into an 8×8 or 9×9 glass pan and chill in the refrigerator for about 2 hours or until coconut has hardened and the mixture has set. Store covered in the refrigerator.

Potato Chipsy Treats
6 cups Crushed, Ridged Potato Chips
4 Tablespoons Butter
1 bag (10 Oz. Size) Marshmallows
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1 Tablespoon Milk (any Kind, I Use Almond)

Grease 8×8 casserole dish using wrapper from butter. Measure chips and slightly crush (not too much).Melt butter in a large pan. Add marshmallows, stirring constantly. When melted, add vanilla and milk. Mix well.Remove from heat and fold chips into marshmallow mix. Press lightly into casserole dish. Once cooled, slice, serve and enjoy!

Matcha Cheesecake with an Oreo Crust
FOR THE CRUST:
1 cup Oreo Cookie Crumbs
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
FOR THE CHEESECAKE:
16 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened
2 cups Sour Cream, Room Temperature
1 cup Granulated Sugar
2 Tablespoons Matcha Powder
3 whole Large Eggs, Room Temperature, Separated
FOR THE WHIPPED CREAM TOPPING:
1 cup Whipping Cream
1 Tablespoon Powdered Sugar
1/2 cups Fresh Raspberries For Garnish
1/4 cups Chocolate Shavings For Garnish

Preheat oven at 350ºF. Grease an 8-inch spring form pan.Make the crust by mixing all the crust ingredients together with a fork. Press the mixture onto the bottom of the spring form pan. Bake crust for 8 to 10 minutes. Set aside to cool. Turn down oven temperature to 300ºF.In the bowl of a standing mixer with a paddle attachment, mix cream cheese, sour cream, sugar and matcha powder. Add egg yolks, one at a time. Blend for another 2 minutes until well combined.In a clean bowl, whip the egg whites until stiff. Gently fold in the cream cheese mixture.Pour the filling in the prepare pan. Tap the pan on counter a few times to release all the air in the batter. Position rack in the centre of oven and place cheesecake on it. Place a shallow pan full of water on the lower rack in the oven.Bake for 1 hour, or until edge of the cheesecake is puffed but the centre is still wobbly and wet-looking. Turn off the oven with the door slightly opened, let the cheesecake sit in the oven to cool completely, at least 1 hour. Remove from the oven. Chill overnight.Remove cake from springform pan and place on the serving plate.To prepare the topping, whip the whipping cream and powdered sugar until it holds firm peaks. Gently spread a thick layer of whipped cream on top of the cake. Garnish with the raspberries and chocolate shaves before serving.

Simple 2-ingredient Chia Cookies
1 whole Banana
1 cup Chia Seeds

Preheat oven to 180ºC (350ºF).Mash the banana with a fork or another tool and add the seeds. Mix the ingredients well and form equal balls out of the mixture. Put greased parchment paper on your tray so your cookies won’t stick.Put the balls on the paper and flatten them a bit. Bake in preheated oven for 15–20 minutes. When they are done, let them cool down completely and then enjoy these delicious, healthy vegan treats!

Chocolate and Marshmallow Cookies
150 grams Softened Butter
100 grams Golden Caster Sugar
80 grams Light Brown Muscovado Sugar
1 whole Large Egg
225 grams Plain Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
50 grams Chocolate Chips
50 grams Mini Marshmallows

Preheat oven to 180ºC (355ºF).In a bowl, cream butter and both sugars. Add egg and beat to combine. Sieve the flour and baking powder into the bowl and combine. Add chocolate chips and marshmallows to the bowl and mix until fully combined.With a teaspoon, portion out the cookie dough onto a papered baking tray. Keep them spaced apart to ensure the cookies don’t spread and touch each other.Bake for 10–12 minutes or until golden brown on the edge and soft in the middle. Take out of the oven and leave to cool for 5 minutes. Take off the tray and put on a wire rack to fully cool.

Lemon Almond Wedding Cookies
1 cup Unsalted Butter, At Room Temperature
2 cups Powdered Sugar, Divided
1 teaspoon Kosher Salt
1 teaspoon Lemon Extract
1/2 teaspoons Almond Extract
1 Lemon, Zested
1 cup Almond Flour
2 cups Unbleached All-purpose Flour

Cream together butter and 1/2 cup powdered sugar. Beat in salt, lemon extract, almond extract, and zest. Mix in almond flour. On low speed, add flour in 2 additions, beating just until combined.Refrigerate dough for 45 minutes. Line cookie sheets with parchment paper and preheat oven to 325ºF.Use a 2-teaspoon cookie scoop to portion the dough onto the prepared sheets. Bake for 12–15 minutes or until done. Pour the remaining powdered sugar into a pie plate. Immediately toss the warm cookies in the sugar. Place the cookies on a wire rack to cool.Once cooled, toss again in the powdered sugar.

3-Ingredient Peanut Butter Cookies
1/2 cups Maple Syrup
2/3 cups Peanut Butter
2/3 cups Oat Flour

Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F).Mix the maple syrup and the peanut butter. Add the oat flour little by little and mix everything well.With a spoon, or with wet hands, put some balls out of the mixture onto a baking tray that’s covered with baking paper. Leave enough space between them and flatten them out a bit. Bake for 10–12 minutes. Be careful not to touch the biscuits because they are very soft while hot and you may ruin their shape. They will get hard when they cool down.

Crispy Lemon Shortbread Slices
1 cup Butter, Softened
1/2 cups Sugar
2 cups Cake Flour
3 whole Lemons, Zested
Sanding Or Powdered Sugar (optional)

Add softened butter to a large bowl and beat well. Gradually add sugar and mix to incorporate. Add cake flour, ½ cup at a time, and mix well after each addition. Add lemon zest and mix well.Divide the dough in half and roll each half into a 1½-inch round log. Roll each log in the powdered sugar or sanding sugar. Wrap in plastic wrap and chill until firm.When ready to bake, preheat oven to 300ºF. Slice the dough into ¼-inch thick slices and place on a parchment-lined cookie sheet.Bake for 30 minutes or until edges are golden. Cool then store in an airtight container.Note: These cookies can be frozen. When ready to bake, defrost slightly and slice and bake as directed.

Mini Lemon & Ginger Cheesecake with Peach Coulis
FOR THE BASE:
150 grams Chocolate Biscuits
3 Tablespoons Melted Butter
FOR THE CHEESECAKE:
460 grams Plain Cream Cheese
2/3 cups White Sugar
2 Eggs
1-1/2 Lemons, 2/3 The Zest And All The Juice
1 teaspoon Vanilla Essence
1 pinch Salt
200 milliliters Full Fat Cream
1 teaspoon Grated Fresh Ginger
FOR THE COULIS:
2 Ripe Peaches, Divided
1 Tablespoon Caster Sugar
2 Tablespoons Water
1/4 teaspoons Ground Ginger

For the base: Preheat oven to 175ºC (about 350ºF).Crush biscuits until fine, or blitz them in a food processor. Pour into a bowl.Melt butter in the microwave, pour in with the biscuits and stir to combine. Press 1 tablespoon of the biscuit mixture into each cup of a flexible rubber muffin pan (this is essential so that you can pop the cheesecakes out when they’re cooked) and bake for 15 minutes. Set aside to cool.For the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese with an electric beater until smooth. Add sugar and beat again until smooth and silky. Add one egg at a time, beating after each addition until fully incorporated. Add lemon juice, vanilla essence, pinch of salt and cream and beat until combined. Stir in lemon rind and grated ginger.Pour mixture onto the cool bases and be sure to leave about 3 mm on top for the cheesecakes to rise. Place on a baking tray and put it in the oven on the middle shelf.Carefully pour in about 1 inch of boiling water into the baking tray so that the cheesecake will stay extra moist and creamy. Bake for 45 minutes. Turn off the oven and leave the cheesecakes inside for 1 hour to cool down very slowly.Take the cheesecakes out of the oven and let cool completely before popping them out carefully from the moulds. Place on a plate.For the coulis: Peel and chop 1 peach and put it in a small saucepan with sugar, water and ginger. Simmer on medium heat until peach is very soft. Mash with a fork until almost smooth.Sieve the coulis mixture over a bowl to get all the liquid out—this is your coulis. Spoon over the top of the cool cheesecakes, just enough so that it sits on the top of the mini cheesecakes.Slice the remaining peach into thin slices and place on top of the cheesecakes.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Vanilla Panna Cotta with Salted Caramel Sauce
500 milliliters Whole Milk
500 milliliters Double Cream
1 whole Vanilla Pod, Split In Half
150 grams Caster Sugar
2 envelopes (about 1/4 Oz. Size) Vegetarian Gelling Agent
400 milliliters Cold Water
FOR THE SALTED CARAMEL:
50 grams Unsalted Butter
90 grams Light Brown Sugar
90 grams Double Cream
1 pinch Sea Salt

Put a large pan on a medium heat and add milk, double cream and vanilla pod. Add sugar and stir until sugar has dissolved.Add the sachets of gelling agents and cold water in a jug and stir until powder has dissolved and transfer to a small pot on a medium heat.At this point, you’ll want to be stirring both the milk mixture and the gelling mixture until they both come to the boil. Then removed both from the heat and strain the gelling agent through a sieve into the milk mixture, stirring regularly.Pour mixture into ramakens or glasses and place in the fridge for at least 3 hours.For the salted caramel: Take a small pan and place on a medium heat. Add butter and once it has melted, add sugar and cream and stir well. Let the caramel come to the boil and give it another good stir. Add salt to taste, cooking for another couple of minutes to thicken and remove from the heat. It can then be stored in the fridge for around 3 days.

Banana Pudding Cupcakes
FOR THE BANANA PUDDING:
2-1/4 cups Milk, Divided
2/3 cups Granulated Sugar
3 whole Egg Yolks
1/4 cups Cornstarch
2 teaspoons Banana Extract
1 Tablespoon Butter
1 whole Banana, Overripe And Mashable
FOR THE CUPCAKES:
3 cups All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 pinch Salt
1-1/2 stick Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
1-1/2 cup Granulated Sugar
4 whole Eggs
1 Tablespoon Banana Extract
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE FROSTING AND TOPPING:
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened To Room Temperature
1 stick Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
1 teaspoon Banana Extract
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
3-3/4 cups Powdered Sugar
24 whole Vanilla Wafers

First, make the pudding. Combine 2 cups of the milk and the sugar together in a medium sauce pan over medium heat. Let it come to a gentle simmer. While that happens whisk the egg yolks together in a bowl. Then in a separate bowl stir the other 1/4 cup of milk thoroughly with the corn starch. Scoop a 1/2 cup of the hot milk into the bowl with the egg yolks and whisk them together to temper the eggs. Then whisk that mixture back into the pot with the rest of the milk, letting it cook for just 15–20 seconds. Continue to whisk while you pour in the cornstarch mixture. Let the pudding bubble and thicken for a minute while you keep whisking, then finally whisk in the banana extract and butter until it is smooth. Transfer the pudding to a bowl and place plastic wrap directly on it to keep it from developing a skin. Set it in the refrigerator to chill for at least 2 hours.Make the cupcakes while the pudding chills. Take two cupcake trays and line 16 of the wells with paper liners. Preheat the oven to 350ºF and set up a stand mixer with the paddle attachment. Whisk the flour, baking powder, cinnamon and salt together in a bowl to aerate the dry ingredients and then set them aside. Combine the butter and sugar in the stand mixer bowl and beat them together until fluffy. Add in each egg one at a time, followed by the two extracts. Turn the speed to low and slowly add in the dry ingredients until you have a sticky, thick batter. Evenly distribute the batter among the 16 wells, filling them just about 3/4 of the way. Bake the cupcakes for about 20 minutes, until golden and crackly around the edges. Let them cool completely.Make the frosting while the cupcakes bake and cool. Wash out the stand mixer bowl and paddle attachment first. Then combine the cream cheese and butter in the bowl and beat them together thoroughly. Add in the cinnamon and banana extract next. Then turn the speed to low and slowly add in the powdered sugar. Cover the bowl and refrigerate the frosting until you are ready to assemble the cupcakes. When you are ready to assemble the cupcakes, mash the banana for the pudding first. Fold it into the rest of the pudding to make it thicker and more flavorful.Use a 1-inch circle cutter to cut out a hole in the center of each cupcake, being careful to not go all of the way to the bottom. Spoon the pudding into the holes generously to fill the cupcakes. Scoop the frosting into a piping bag fitted with a star tip and frost each cupcake. Then take 8 of the vanilla wafers and put them into a resealable bag. Crush them into crumbs with a rolling pin, then sprinkle each of the cupcakes generously with the crumbs. Finish by sticking a whole vanilla wafer on top. There will be leftover crumbs and pudding that can be made into great dessert later! Store the cupcakes in a sealed container in the refrigerator until you are ready to serve them. Enjoy!

3-Ingredient Decadent Chocolate Truffles
2/3 cups Dates, Pitted
1 Tablespoon Melted Coconut Oil
2 Tablespoons (or More) Cocoa Powder, Plus Extra For Rolling

My dates were very dry, so I soaked them in water for about 1 hour. You can skip this step if your dates are still juicy.Put the dates in a food processor and process until they become a puree. Add melted coconut oil and the cocoa powder and process again until you have a homogeneous mixture. The mixture or the dough should look like thick chocolate mousse. Put it in the fridge for about 1 hour until it’s hard enough for you to make balls out of it.Make the balls and roll them in the cocoa powder. Keep them in the fridge, because the coconut oil melts very easily.

Homemade Chocolate Fudge
100 milliliters Water
150 grams Sugar
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Sugar
1 pinch Salt
120 grams Softened Butter
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
250 grams Powdered Milk
50 grams Powdered Cocoa
50 grams Roasted Hazelnuts, Quartered
30 grams Roasted Walnuts, Quartered
1 Tablespoon Raisins

Heat a sauce pan and add water, sugar, vanilla sugar, and salt, stirring until dissolved. Simmer for several minutes syrupy. To check if it’s ready, drop a little bit of syrup in cold water—if the drop sticks together, the syrup is ready. Add butter and vanilla and mix until butter is dissolved.Combine powdered milk with cocoa and gradually add it to the syrup. Then add hazelnuts, walnuts, and raisins. Combine well.Line a square pan with plastic and pour the mixture in. Let cool at room temperature for at least 4 hours.

Maple Bourbon Pecan Pie
2 cups Chopped Pecans
1 cup Light Corn Syrup
1/4 cups Pure Maple Syrup
1/2 cups Light Brown Sugar, Packed
4 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Melted And Cooled Slightly
3 Large Eggs
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
2 Tablespoons Bourbon
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 whole 9 Inch Frozen Pie Crust

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Combine pecans and remaining ingredients (except crust) in a large bowl, stirring well to combine. Pour filling into prepared crust.Bake for 45 minutes or until center of pie is set and not jiggly. Cool on wire rack.

Homemade Vegan Ferrero Rocher
1/3 cups Dried Fruit
1/2 cups Water
1 cup Ground Hazelnuts, Divided
2 Tablespoons Hazelnut Butter
4 Tablespoons Cacao Powder
20 whole Hazelnuts
1/2 cups Chocolate Chips

Soak dried fruit in water for 30 minutes. Drain.In a food processor, add half the ground hazelnuts, dried fruit, hazelnut butter, and cacao powder. Process until everything is well mixed. Let the mixture chill in the fridge for about 1 hour.Take teaspoonfuls of the mixture, put a hazelnut inside each and form a ball. Roll the balls in remaining ground hazelnuts and put them in the freezer for 30–40 minutes to harden.Melt the chocolate. You can use the double boiler method or do it in the microwave, stirring every 10 seconds. If there are ground hazelnuts left, add them to the melted chocolate.Roll the balls into the melted chocolate and put them in the fridge until the chocolate cover has hardened.

Apple Dessert with Pumpkin Filling
7 ounces, weight Chestnut
7 ounces, weight Pumpkin
2 whole Apples
10 whole Dates
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1-1/2 ounces, weight Walnuts, Crushed Or Ground

Place chestnuts in a bowl with warm water and soak for 30 minutes. This will make them easier to peel later.Preheat oven to 220ºC (425ºF).Dry chestnuts and carefully cut an X in their shells.This is very important so nothing goes wrong while baking them. Be careful, the shell is quite slippery.Place chestnuts into a small tray with pumpkin and cover with baking paper. Bake for 45–50 minutes.Meanwhile, cut apples in half and remove the core from it. Place into another small tray and put in the oven with chestnuts and pumpkin. Bake for 20 minutes.Take out the apples from the oven and let cool. After some 20 minutes, chestnuts and pumpkin will be ready as well.Peel chestnuts and blend with pumpkin, dates and cinnamon. Fill apples with the mix, and serve with walnuts.

Pecan Shortbread Cookies
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1/4 cups Cornstarch
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Nutmeg
1 pinch Salt
2 sticks Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
3/4 cups Dark Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Finely Ground Pecans
Powdered Sugar, As Needed For Dusting On Top.

First, prepare the easy dough. Whisk the flour, corn starch, cinnamon, nutmeg, and salt together in a bowl to aerate them. Set the bowl aside. Set up a stand mixer and combine the butter and sugar in its bowl. Beat them together until fluffy, pushing the sides down occasionally. Turn the speed to low and slowly add in the dry ingredients just until they are combined in. Finally, add in the ground pecans and let them just get combined in.Turn the dough out onto a sheet of plastic wrap and gently form it into a long, square log. The square should be roughly 2 inches on each side and the log should be about 12-14 inches long. Wrap the log in the plastic wrap and refrigerate it for at least 2 hours. When the time is up, pre-heat the oven to 350ºF and line 2 sheet trays with silicone mats or parchment paper.Slice the log into roughly 1/2 inch thick cookies and lay them out evenly on the sheet trays. Leave a little room between each of them, about 20 should fit well per sheet. This recipe yields about 40 cookies. Use a fork to pierce each cookie twice to make the signature shortbread tine marks, then bake them for about 20 minutes. They should be golden but not brown. Let them cool for a few minutes on the sheet trays and dust them with powdered sugar. Then transfer them to racks to finish cooling. Store them in airtight containers until you are ready to serve them!

Dulce de Leche Mousse
4 Eggs, Separated
1 can (397g Size) Dulce De Leche

Whisk egg whites until stiff peaks. In another bowl, add yolks to dulce de leche and mix.Mix just a little bit of egg whites into the yolk mixture and then fold in the rest carefully. Leave in the fridge for 2 hours, or if you’re just too greedy, dig in.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Easy Peasy Chocolate Sugar Cookies
1/2 cups Butter
1/2 cups Coconut Oil
2 cups Sugar
2 Eggs
1 cup Sour Cream
1 Tablespoon Vanilla
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 cups Cacao
5 cups Whole Wheat Flour

Cream together butter, coconut oil, sugar eggs, sour cream and vanilla. Add remaining ingredients and mix until well combined. It should be a soft dough. Cover and chill at least 4 hours or overnight.Sprinkle counter with a little bit of cacao and roll dough out on counter. Cut dough into desired shapes and bake on cookie sheets at 350ºF until barely golden on the bottom. Baking time depends on the size of the cookie. Allow to cool and frost as desired.

Easy Rocky Road
100 grams Butter
175 grams Milk Chocolate
85 grams Dark Chocolate
3 Tablespoons Golden Syrup
150 grams Rich Tea Biscuits
40 grams Glace Cherries
50 grams Raisins
50 grams Mini Marshmallows

If you want the marshmallows to hold their shape, then put them in the freezer a couple of hours before starting your recipe (I also like to ensure they are separated from one another.)In a pan over low heat, melt butter, milk chocolate, dark chocolate and golden syrup. Once melted, set aside 100ml of the melted chocolate mixture to be used later. Leave the rest in the pan but turn off the heat.Crush biscuits into small pieces and fold into the chocolate mixture in the pan. Chop the cherries into halves or thirds depending on their size and add to the pan. Mix in raisins and mini marshmallows.Lay out the baking parchment onto a tray (20cmx15cm) and spoon the mixture onto it. Press down firmly on the mixture to compress and form an even layer.Pour the reserved 100ml of melted chocolate evenly across the top of the mixture. The idea is to fill in any gaps with it, and create a slightly smoother top surface. The liquid should only just cover all of the surface, so you may need to spread it with a spoon to distribute it evenly.Put it in the fridge to set. It will be set enough to eat in about 2 hours, but I prefer to leave it overnight to give it enough time to fully harden.

Not Quite Crème Brûlée
2-1/4 cups Milk, Divided
7-2/3 Tablespoons Sugar, Divided
1 whole Orange, Zest Cut In Large Strips (optional)
3 drops Vanilla Extract, Or Orange Extract If Not Using Orange Zest
3 Egg Yolks
2 Tablespoons Cornstarch
1 Tablespoon All-purpose Flour
1 pinch Salt

Reserve 3 tablespoons of milk. Pour remaining milk into a pan. Add 3 tablespoons of sugar and the orange zest or extract if using, and bring to just a boil.Meanwhile, in a bowl, beat egg yolks with 2 tablespoons sugar, cornstarch, flour, and remaining 3 tablespoons milk.Remove 1/2 a cup of hot milk from the pan and mix quickly with the egg mixture. Add the egg mixture back into the pan with the hot milk and cook, stirring continuously over low heat, until mixture is thickened and smooth, about 5 minutes. Pour into 4-ounce ramekins and cool in the refrigerator until chilled, about 1 hour.Remove ramekins from the refrigerator and top with 2 teaspoons of sugar each. Place under broiler about 4 inches from the top and broil until deep dark golden brown.

3-Ingredient Pistachio Dark Chocolate Bark
24 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate Chips (See Note)
1/4 cups Raw Pistachios, Chopped
1-1/2 teaspoon Coarse Sea Salt

Place a sheet of parchment paper on a cookie sheet and then set aside.Create a double boiler by filling a saucepan with about 2-3 inches of water, and bring to a boil. Place glass bowl on top of the sauce pan, making sure the bottom of the bowl doesn’t actually touch the water.Add the dark chocolate chips to the glass bowl. Stir the chocolate chips as they slowly melt. You are looking for the texture to be smooth and pour-able.Pour the melted chocolate onto the prepared baking sheet, and carefully spread the chocolate into an even layer that’s about ¼ inch thick. Sprinkle with the chopped pistachios and coarse sea salt evenly over the chocolate.Place the entire baking sheet into the freezer for about 25–30 minutes, to allow the chocolate to completely freeze. Remove from the freezer and break the chocolate into uneven pieces, and enjoy.Store in the freezer up to one month.Note: For the best (and cleanest) chocolate, you’re gonna want to look for dark chocolate with about 70 percent cacao or higher. That way, you’ll know it has been processed the least, has the most nutritional benefits, and contains the least amount of sugar.

Kiwi Fruit Salad with Honey Orange Drizzle
1/2 whole Honeydew Melon, Thinly Sliced
4 whole Kiwi Fruit, Peeled And Thinly Sliced
1/3 cups Red Grapes
2 whole Bosc Pears, Washed And Thinly Sliced
1 whole Orange
1 teaspoon Honey

Arrange melon, kiwi, grapes and pears on a decorative platter.Squeeze juice from orange into a small bowl. Add honey and mix well. Drizzle over the fruit.This recipe works well as a low fat, healthy dessert, breakfast or as a light lunch with cottage cheese.

Gluten-Free Dutch Baby with Vanilla and Pear
1/4 cups Brown Rice Flour
1/4 cups Almond Flour
3 Tablespoons Tapioca Starch
1/4 teaspoons Kosher Salt
3 Large Eggs, At Room Temperature
3/4 cups Whole Milk, Or Almond Milk
1/2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
2 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
2 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar (preferably Organic Raw Cane)
1 Large Bosc Pear, Peeled, Cored And Cut Into 1/4-inch-thick Slices
1 Vanilla Bean, Split, Seeds Scraped Out And Reserved
Confectioners’ Sugar, For Serving

Place a 10-inch cast iron skillet on a rack about 6 inches below the oven broiler. Preheat oven to 450ºF.Meanwhile, in large bowl, whisk brown rice flour, almond flour, tapioca starch, and salt. In a small bowl, whisk eggs, milk, and vanilla. Slowly add the milk mixture to the flour, whisking until smooth. Set the batter aside.After about 20 minutes, when the skillet and oven are hot, carefully remove the pan and switch the oven to broil. Add butter to the hot skillet and swirl it around. Sprinkle the sugar evenly over the butter. Add the pear slices and vanilla bean seeds and toss to coat.Return the skillet o the oven and broil until the sugar begins to caramelize, stirring halfway though, 4 to 5 minutes. Remove the skillet from the oven and turn the oven temperature back to 450ºF.Whisk the batter and immediately add it to the skillet. Return the skillet to the oven and cook until the Dutch baby is puffed and set, about 12 to 16 minutes. Sprinkle with confectioners’ sugar before serving.

Secretly Healthy Low Carb Gingerbread Cookies
3 Tablespoons Dairy Free Butter
1 Tablespoon Coconut Sugar, Sieved
1 Tablespoon Honey
1 whole Egg
70 grams Ground Almonds
30 grams Coconut Flour
1/4 teaspoons Bicarbonate Of Soda
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 Tablespoon Cornflour
1/4 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1 teaspoon Ground Ginger
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Salt

In a large bowl, beat butter and sugar until fluffy. Add honey and egg and continue beating until combined.In a separate bowl, sieve ground almonds, coconut flour, bicarbonate of soda, baking powder, cornflour, nutmeg, ground cloves, ground gnger, ground cinnamon and salt.Add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients little by little, beating until dough-like. You may need to use a spatula towards the end (the dough will be sticky).Form the dough into a large ball, cover with cling film and place in the fridge for about 1 hour.Preheat oven to 180ºC (355ºF). You will need 2 baking trays the same size and two pieces of baking parchment cut to fit inside the baking trays. Line one of the baking trays with baking parchment and set aside.Remove gingerbread from the fridge and scoop 1 tablespoon of the gingerbread dough. Roll into a ball in your hands and place on the prepared baking tray. Repeat until all the dough is gone, make sure they are evenly spaced apart on the baking tray.Place the other piece of baking parchment over the top of the gingerbread dough balls and squash down with the other baking tray to be between 0.5cm and 1 cm thick.Remove the baking tray and parchment and bake in the oven for about 10 minutes or until starting to brown. Remove from the oven and let cool before transferring to an airtight box. Store in a cool dark place for about 5 days.

Apple Cider Caramels
4 cups Apple Cider
1 cup Granulated White Sugar
1/2 cups Light Brown Sugar, Packed
1 stick Unsalted Butter, Cut Into Chunks
1/3 cups Heavy Cream
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
2 teaspoons Fleur De Sel Or Flaky Salt
Grape Seed Oil For The Knife

On high heat, boil apple cider in a saucepan until it is reduced to a thick syrup (about 1/2 cup in volume) and stir occasionally. This takes about 35–40 minutes.While cider is boiling, get the other ingredients ready because you’ll need to move quickly after the cider is reduced to syrup. Measure the sugars and place in a bowl. Cut the butter into small chunks. Measure the heavy cream. Stir together the cinnamon and salt and place in a separate, small bowl.Line the bottom and sides of an 8-inch straight-sided square metal baking pan with 2 long sheets of parchment paper (in a crisscross layout). Set it aside.Once you are finished reducing the apple cider, remove it from the heat and immediately stir in the sugars, butter, and heavy cream. Stir until mixture is smooth and butter has melted. Return the pot to medium-high heat for about 5 minutes. Have a bowl of very cold water ready, and cook the caramel (for 5 minutes) until a very small spoonful dropped into the water becomes firm, chewy, and able to be formed into a little ball. If you want to be precise, use a candy thermometer and let it boil until the thermometer reads 252ºF. Either way, watch the caramel closely; you don’t want to under- or overcook it.Immediately remove the caramel from the heat, add the cinnamon and salt mixture, and give it several stirs to distribute the cinnamon/salt evenly.Pour the caramel into the prepared pan. Let it sit until cool and firm—about 2 hours (only about an hour in the refrigerator). Once the caramel is firm, lift the caramel from the pan by the parchment paper and transfer it to a cutting board. Let the caramel sit out for a little bit before you start cutting it. If it is too cold, it will crack when you try to cut it. Use a well-oiled knife to cut the caramel into 1-by-1-inch squares. Lightly sprinkle the caramels with flaky salt.Wrap each one in a small square of waxed paper or parchment, twisting the sides to close. Caramels will be somewhat on the soft side at room temperature and hard and chewy if left in the refrigerator. These caramels keep for about 2 weeks in an airtight container if left outside the refrigerator.Recipe from Smitten Kitchen.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Old-Fashioned Greek Yogurt Chocolate Snacking Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
1-3/4 cup Unbleached All-purpose Flour
3/4 cups Natural Unsweetened Cocoa
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Kosher Salt
2/3 cups Salted Butter, Room Temperature
1-3/4 cup Sugar
2 Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
2 cups Plain Greek Yogurt, 2% Or Full-fat
FOR THE FROSTING:
6 Tablespoons Salted Butter, Room Temperature
3 cups Powdered Sugar
1/2 cups Natural Unsweetened Cocoa
1/4 cups Milk, Or More If Needed
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

Grease and flour a 9 x 13 pan. Preheat oven to 350ºF.Whisk flour, cocoa, baking soda, and salt. Set aside. In another bowl, cream butter and sugar together until creamy. Beat in eggs and vanilla, scraping down the sides and bottom of the bowl as needed.On low speed, add the flour mixture in three additions, alternating with the Greek yogurt. After the last addition, scrape down the bottom and sides of bowl, and beat until combined.Pour the batter into the prepared pan and smooth evenly. Bake for 35–40 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the middle comes out clean. Set on a wire rack to cool.Make the frosting. Beat the butter until creamy. Whisk the powdered sugar and cocoa together, then gradually add to the butter on low speed. Beat in the milk and vanilla, mixing until smooth and thick. Add more milk if needed for spreading consistency. Spread over the cooled cake using an offset spatula.

The New Tiramisu
2 cups Strongly Brewed Coffee, Cooled
2 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract (or See Note Below)
14 ounces, weight Savoiardi Cookies (The Crisp Kind, Not Spongy)
4 ounces, weight Semisweet Or Bittersweet Chocolate, Grated
FOR THE CHEESE MIXTURE:
16 ounces, weight Mascarpone Cheese, Room Temperature
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
2 cups Heavy Cream, Chilled

In a shallow dish large enough to dip an entire savoiardi cookies, combine coffee, sugar, and pure vanilla extract (or alcohol if using); set aside.For the cheese mixture, in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whip attachment, cream the room temperature mascarpone cheese, sugar, and pure vanilla extract on medium speed, just until combined; stop the mixer and scrape down the sides of the bowl. Turn the mixer back on medium speed and slowly pour in the cold heavy cream; increase speed to medium-high and continue to whip until the whip leaves distinct tracks in the mixture.To assemble, spread a thin layer of the cheese mixture in the bottom of a 9×13-inch casserole dish.Dip the savoiardi cookies, one at a time, in the coffee mixture and quickly place them in the bottom of the casserole dish; repeat until the bottom of the pan is filled with cookies. Top with half of the cheese mixture, spreading it into an even layer. Repeat with another layer or cookies, and top with remaining cheese mixture, again spreading into an even layer. Sprinkle grated chocolate all over the top. Cover well with plastic wrap and chill for at least 4 hour, or up to several days. Serve chilled.Note: If you’d like to add alcohol to the coffee mixture, add enough to suit your taste. Kahlua, rum, amaretto, and chocolate liqueur are nice options. Tiramisu can be assembled several days ahead of time.

Chocolate-Covered Coconut Bites
4 (1/4 To 1/2 Lb. Size) Medium Russet Potatoes, Peeled And Cut Into Quarters
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt
3-1/2 teaspoons Coconut Oil (Or Use Butter If Desired), Divided
4 Tablespoons Coconut Or Other Milk, Divided
2 cups Organic Powdered Sugar
2-1/2 cups Unsweetened Coconut Flakes
1 teaspoon Vanilla
15 drops Natural Food Coloring
12 ounces, weight Allergen-free Chocolate Chips, Chunks, Or Shavings

Add potatoes to a medium saucepan and enough water to cover them. Add salt. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat to medium-low. Cover loosely and heat until potatoes are tender enough to break (about 15 minutes). Drain.Mash with a potato masher or fork. Add 3 teaspoons (or 1 tablespoon) coconut oil and 2 tablespoons milk gradually while mashing until potatoes are smooth. Cool in the fridge.Combine 1/3 cup of the mashed potatoes, powdered sugar, coconut flakes, vanilla, and coloring. Mix in remaining 2 tablespoons milk until all ingredients are easily combined (you may need slightly less milk depending on consistency). Refrigerate overnight (this hydrates the coconut flakes).Roll into balls. Refrigerate for 5–10 minutes to re-harden.Melt chocolate and remaining ½ teaspoon coconut oil together. Roll balls into chocolate. Garnish if desired. Refrigerate until hardened.Enjoy right away, store in the fridge, or freeze for later use.

Chocolate Peppermint Truffles
5 bars (4 Oz. Size) Semi-sweet Bakers Chocolate, Divided
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
1 pinch Salt
1 Tablespoon Peppermint Extract
Crushed Peppermint Candy Canes, As Needed For Topping

First, prepare the ganache. Fill a small pot about halfway with water and bring it to a gentle simmer over medium heat. While it heats up, break up 2 of the chocolate bars into small pieces and transfer them to a large heat proof bowl. Put the bowl over the simmering water and let the chocolate melt, stirring often. Once it is fairly melted, pour in the sweetened condensed milk and the pinch of salt, getting them mixed in thoroughly. Take the bowl off of the heat and stir in the mint extract to finish the ganache. Then put the bowl in the freezer for an hour to let it chill enough to work with.Once it is chilled, set up a sheet tray and line it with a silicone mat. Use a 1 1/2-inch cookie scoop to scoop out perfect portions of the ganache and roll them into balls. Line them up on the sheet tray as you make them. Then put the tray back into the freezer for another hour to chill them completely again. When they are done chilling again, set up a second sheet tray with another silicone mat. Break up the remaining three chocolate bars into small piece and get them into a large, microwave safe bowl.Microwave the chocolate for 1 to 2 minutes, checking it and stirring it until it is completely melted and smooth. Coat the ganache centers in the chocolate, fishing them out with a fork to let the excess drip back in. Nudge them off the fork with a toothpick onto the second sheet tray. About halfway through you may need to microwave the chocolate to make it melty again for about 30 seconds. Top all of the truffles with a generous sprinkle of the crushed peppermint candy while the coating is still soft so that it will stick. Store the tray in the freezer to set the chocolate for an hour, then keep them in a sealed container in the refrigerator until you are ready to serve them!

3-Ingredient Low-Carb Paleo Cookies
1/2 cups Tahini
2 Tablespoons Sugar
1 Egg
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda (optional)
Raisins, As Desired (optional)

Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F), or a little lower if your oven has a fan.Mix nut butter with sweetener. Add eggs and baking soda, if using. Mix until everything is well combined; the mixture should be thick and sticky but also rather runny. Add raisins to the mixture or just add them as a decoration on top of the cookies.Put some baking paper (or aluminum foil) on your baking tray. Pour about 2/3 of a tablespoon of the mixture onto the paper to shape the cookies. Leave enough space between them, because they’ll expand in the oven.Bake for about 10 minutes and keep an eye on them.

Dark Chocolate Covered Coconut Bites
2 cups Unsweetened Flaked Coconut
2 Tablespoons Honey
2 Tablespoons Plus 1 Teaspoon Coconut Oil, Divided
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
6 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate (morsels Or Chunks)

Add flaked coconut to the bowl of a food processor. Make sure the coconut is unsweetened. Turn the food processor on and allow to run for a good 3–5 minutes, until coconut starts to look crumbly and some moisture starts to be released. You almost want the consistency of a rough flour.Remove the coconut and add to a mixing bowl. Add honey, 2 tablespoons coconut oil, and vanilla extract. Stir to combine.Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper and set aside.Take about 1 tablespoon of the coconut mixture and squeeze it into a small ball in your hands. You may need to really work with it and make sure it’s good and packed together so it stays in a ball and using a few drops of water to wet your hands will help keep the coconut from sticking. Once it’s nicely formed into a ball, place on your parchment-paper-lined tray and repeat with remaining coconut. You should have about 15 to 20 balls. Place into the fridge for about 10–15 minutes or until coconut oil has solidified.While waiting on the coconut oil to harden, melt dark chocolate for dipping by setting up either a double boiler or a large bowl placed over, but not touching, a pot of boiling water. Add chocolate and remaining ½ teaspoon coconut oil and allow both to melt completely, while stirring occasionally. Once everything is smooth, turn off the heat, but leave the bowl on the pot to keep warm.One coconut bite at a time, drop into the melted chocolate and toss around using a spoon or fork until it’s completely covered in the dark chocolate. Transfer back to the parchment-lined baking sheet. Repeat with remaining bites and then return to the fridge for another 15–20 minutes to let the chocolate harden.

Ginger Treacle Loaf with Yoghurt Raspberry Frosting
FOR THE CAKE:
2-1/2 cups Plain Flour
1 teaspoon Bicarbonate Of Soda
1 cup Dark Treacle Sugar Or Molasses Sugar
1/2 cups Caramel Sugar Or Muscavado Sugar
4 teaspoons Ground Ginger
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Mixed Spice
1 teaspoon Nutmeg
1/2 cups Butter
2 Eggs
1/4 cups Olive Oil
190 milliliters Coconut Milk
FOR THE FROSTING:
1/2 cups Full Cream Plain Greek Yoghurt
1 teaspoon Raspberry Jam

For the cake: Place dry ingredients in a large mixing bowl and mix together with a wooden spoon.Melt butter. Lightly beat egg in a small bowl. Add wet ingredients to dry ingredients and mix until smooth.Pour mixture into a well-greased and floured loaf tin about 20 x 10cm in size. Bake at 160°C (320ºF) for 1 hour. Leave in the tin until completely cool then turn out onto a cooling rack and allow the bottom of the loaf to cool.Place loaf on the plate or board you wish to serve it on.For the frosting; Mix yoghurt and jam together, pour over the loaf and serve.Notes: Because of the yoghurt frosting, store the loaf in an airtight container in the fridge. It will keep for a few days.

Christmas Fruit Mince Pies with Light Pastry
1-1/2 cup Plain Flour
1/3 cups Plus 1 Teaspoon Butter
Pinch Of Salt
1 cup Sour Cream
1 jar (454g Size) Fruit Mincemeat
Milk, For Brushing On Pastry

For the pastry: Place flour in a bowl and rub the butter into the flour using your fingers until it looks like fine crumbs. Add salt and sour cream and mix with a metal spoon until pastry comes together. Form into a ball with your hands, place in a plastic bag and rest in the fridge overnight.To assemble the pies: Preheat oven to 180°C (355ºF).On a clean, floured surface, roll the pastry thin and cut out circles for the base and stars for the top. Place the base circles into an ungreased mince pie tin (or shallow cupcake tin) and spoon in 1 heaping teaspoon of mincemeat into each pie. Wet the corners of the stars with a little milk and place on top, pressing down lightly in the corners so that they stick to the base pastry. Brush the stars gently with some milk and then use a fork to make 4 little holes in the middle of the stars to let out the steam.Bake in the middle of the oven for about 20 minutes until they are golden. Then do the next batch.Notes: If you don’t have time to leave the pastry in the fridge overnight, rest it in the fridge for a minimum of 2 hours. If you don’t have a star pastry cutter, use a slightly smaller circle than the circle cutter you are using for the base. Stick them down in the normal way with a little milk around the edges. Brush gently with milk, and use a fork to make a row of little holes on the top to let the steam out.

Eggnog Créme Brûlée
3-1/2 cups Heavy Cream
8 Large Egg Yolks
1 cup Sugar, Divided
1/2 cups Bourbon Or Spiced Rum
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
1-1/2 teaspoon Ground Nutmeg
1 pinch Salt

Preheat oven to 325ºF. Place a 9 X 13 inch baking dish, filled halfway with water, on the bottom rack of the oven to create steam. Set the second oven rack to the middle position. Butter a 10-inch ceramic tart pan and set aside.In a large bowl, whisk egg yolks with ¾ cup sugar, vanilla, nutmeg and salt.Pour the cream into a sauce pot, and set over medium heat until it simmers. Then turn off the heat.Whisking the egg mixture feverishly, slowly pour the hot cream into the eggs. Whisk fast and pour slow to ensure you don’t scramble the eggs. Whisk in the bourbon. Then pour the finished mixture into the prepared tart pan.Bake for 30 minutes on the center rack. The edges should be firm and the very center should jiggle just a little. Remove the pan from the oven and cool until it’s easy to handle. Then cover the tops with plastic wrap and chill for at least 4 hours.Before serving, sprinkle remaining ¼ cup sugar over the top of the custard.Set the oven on broil and place a rack in the top position. Broil the sugar for 1–2 minutes until dark and caramelized. Don’t take your eyes off the pan. Sugar can turn black under the broiler in a matter of seconds. Once caramelized, crack the surface and serve!

Delicious Butternut Squash Cheesecake
5 Graham Crackers
2 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
1 cup Non-Fat Greek Yogurt
3/4 cups Butternut Squash Puree
1 Medium Egg White
8 ounces, weight Low-fat Cream Cheese
1/3 cups Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Cornstarch
2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Ground Ginger

Preheat oven to 350°F and lightly grease a baking pan with cooking spray. Set aside.Place graham crackers in the bowl of a food processor and blend until they form fine crumbs. Add butter into a small bowl and heat in the microwave for 30 seconds, or until fully melted. Stir melted butter into graham cracker crumbs until all the liquid has been absorbed.Tip the buttery graham cracker crumbs into the bottom of the baking pan and press down to form the cheesecake crust.Wipe the inside of the food processor clean and add in the rest of the ingredients. Blend for 30 seconds, until everything is fully combined. You might have to scrape down the insides of the bowl a few times to make sure everything gets properly mixed up.Use a large spoon to scoop the cheesecake filling on top of the crust and bake in the preheated oven for 30 minutes. After 30 minutes, turn off the oven, leave the oven door closed and let the cheesecake sit for another 30 minutes.Remove the cheesecake from the oven and leave to cool at room temperature for 60 minutes before placing in the fridge to chill for at least 4 hours.

Chewy Molasses Spice Cookies for Two
1 teaspoon Flax Meal
3 teaspoons Water
2 Tablespoons Packed Brown Sugar
5 teaspoons Olive Oil
4 teaspoons Molasses (a Dark Molasses Like Blackstrap Tastes Best)
1/2 cups Whole Wheat Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/8 teaspoons Fine Grain Sea Salt
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1/4 teaspoons Ground Ginger

Mix together flax meal and water in a small bowl, stir well and set aside for at least 5 minutes.Preheat toaster oven to 35ºF and lightly grease cookie sheet or line with a silicone mat.In a small bowl, stir sugar, oil and molasses. Add flax mixture, whisking until everything is thick and well-combined. Stir in flour, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, cloves and ginger. Mix until a soft dough forms.Shape dough into two balls. Place on prepared cookie sheet and gently flatten cookies with your hand. Leave at least 2 inches between cookies; the dough will spread during baking.Bake for 7 to 9 minutes until the tops have cracked and the edges are set. Allow cookies to cool completely on sheet before removing.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Bread Butter Pudding
1 whole Baguette
2 Tablespoons Melted Unsalted Butter, Plus More For Greasing Pan
1/4 cups Raisins
2 whole Eggs
1 cup Sugar, Divided
3 drops Vanilla Extract, Divided
1/3 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1 pinch Nutmeg
3-1/2 cups Milk, Divided
2 Egg Yolks

Cut baguette into thin slices.Take a deep baking pan. Butter the surface of the pan. Place the bread slices in a circular pattern. Brush melted butter on the bread pieces. Sprinkle the raisins on top and in between the bread pieces.Whisk whole eggs until smooth and creamy. Add 1/2 cup sugar and whisk. Add 2 drops vanilla, cinnamon and nutmeg. Whisk and make sure everything is well-combined.Add 2 1/2 cups of milk to the mixture. Whisk gently. Pour the mixture into the baking pan. The mixture should come up to at least 2/3 height of the bread pieces.Place in preheated 180°C (356ºF) oven for 15 minutes.Meanwhile, for the custard, whisk egg yolks well. Add remaining 1/2 cup sugar and continue to whisk until creamy. Add remaining 1 cup milk and a drop of vanilla. Whisk again.Take the baking pan out of the oven after it has baked for 15 minutes. Pour the custard mixture on top. Return to the oven and continue baking for 20–25 minutes, until all the liquid have been absorbed by the bread. Remove from the oven and let cool.This is best served when it has been refrigerated for at least 2 hours.

Gingerbread Cookies
5-1/2 cups Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1-1/2 teaspoon Salt
5 teaspoons Ground Ginger
5 teaspoons Cinnamon
1-1/2 teaspoon Coriander
1 teaspoon Nutmeg
1 teaspoon Pepper
1 cup Unsalted Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
1 cup Sugar
2 whole Eggs
1 cup Honey
1/2 cups Molasses

In a large bowl, add flour, baking soda, salt, ginger, cinnamon, coriander, nutmeg and pepper. Whisk to combine.In the bowl of an electric mixer, combine softened butter and sugar. Beat on low until fluffy. Add eggs one at a time to butter-sugar mixture. Mix on low until just combined. Add honey and molasses and beat on low until combined.Add the flour mixture to the wet mixture in three batches with the mixer on low. Stop the mixer between batches to make sure that all the ingredients are incorporated.Once the dough is mixed, form into a ball and wrap in plastic wrap. Refrigerate overnight (the dough will be extremely sticky otherwise).After the dough has been in the fridge overnight, take it out of the fridge and divide it in half. Place one half back in the fridge and use the remaining half to begin cutting out cookies.Preheat oven to 350ºF and prepare at least two baking sheets.Roll out your dough until it is about 1/4 inch thick. Using desired cookie cutters, begin cutting out the shapes of the cookies and placing them on a baking sheet. (I was able to fit about 12 cookies per baking sheet.) Once you have filled a baking sheet, bring the scraps of dough back together to form a ball and put it in the freezer to set again before reusing.Bake the cookies for 10 minutes, rotating half way through. Once baked, remove from the oven and allow to cool for a few minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool fully.Repeat the process of rolling out the dough, cutting out the cookies, re-setting the dough and baking until all remaining dough is used. I made 5 dozen cookies with this process.Serve as desired or share with friends!

Gingerbread Ice Cream
4 Egg Yolks
10 Tablespoons Icing Sugar
2 teaspoons Mixed Spice
400 milliliters Whipping Cream
8 Gingerbread Cookies, Divided

Beat egg yolks with icing sugar until smooth, 2–3 minutes. Stir in mixed spice until well-combined.In a separate mixing bowl, whip cream. Fold in egg yolk mixture.Crumble 2 gingerbread cookies and throw them in the bowl. Mix again.No-churn option: Pour the mixture in a plastic container, crumble the rest of the cookies and stir them in. Transfer to the freezer and freeze several hours (for best results, overnight). Take the ice cream out and mix to break any ice crystals. Do this at least 3 to 4 times every hour.Ice cream machine: Follow the instructions on your ice cream machine. After 30–40 minutes, when the ice cream is harder but not too hard, turn machine off. Transfer ice cream to a plastic container. Crumble the remaining cookies and add to the ice cream. Gently stir them in. Place in the freezer for a few hours.Serve with some extra gingerbread cookies, if desired!Makes about 2 cups ice cream.

White Chocolate Covered Popcorn
10 cups Popped Popcorn
16 ounces, fluid White Chocolate
1 cup M&Ms (optional)

Lay the popcorn in a single layer on wax or parchment paper on a baking sheet.In a double boiler, melt chocolate until no lumps remain, stirring constantly. Pour melted chocolate over popcorn. Working quickly, toss popcorn so that each piece is fully coated.Sprinkle the M&Ms, if using, over the popcorn. Let cool for 1 hour. Break into smaller chunks and store in an airtight container.

Gluten-Free Snowball Cookies
1 cup Coconut Oil Packed Solid In Measuring Cup
1/4 cups Powdered Sugar, Plus More For Sprinkling
2 teaspoons Vanilla
1 Tablespoon Water
2 cups Almond Flour
1 cup Chopped Pecans

Set oven to 300ºF.Using a hand mixer, combine coconut oil and powdered sugar until smooth. Add vanilla and water and continue mixing. The color of the batter should turn a slight brownish color.Gradually pour in almond flour, stirring by hand, if necessary. Add pecans.Roll into balls and line on a baking sheet. Bake for 20 minutes on increased cookie sheet or until delicately brown. Reshape, if necessary, after removing from oven. Sprinkle with more powdered sugar.

Chocolate Chip Cookies
3-1/3 cups Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Soda
2 teaspoons Salt
2/3 cups Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
2/3 cups Shortening
1 cup Sugar
1 cup Brown Sugar
2 Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla
2 cups Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 375°F and line 2 baking sheets with a silicone baking mat or parchment paper.In a large bowl, sift together flour, salt, and baking soda. Set aside.Using a stand mixer or hand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, cream softened butter, shortening, and both sugars together on medium speed until fluffy. Add eggs and vanilla, beating on high until combined, scraping down the sides of the bowl as needed.Add dry ingredients to the wet ingredients on low speed until just combined. Add chocolate chips, mixing on low until evenly dispersed.Roll 2 heaping tablespoonfuls of dough into balls and place on prepared baking sheet. Bake in preheated oven for 11–15 minutes, or until lightly browned. You can also press extra chocolate chips into the top of the cookies after they are baked for a pretty effect.Allow cookies to cool on the baking sheet for 3 minutes and transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.Make-ahead tip: Cookies stay fresh covered at room temperature for up to 4 days. You can also make the cookie dough and refrigerate it for up to 3 days. Let it come to room temperature and continue with the baking instructions. Baked cookies will freeze well up to 3 months. Unbaked cookie dough balls also freeze well for up to 3 months. Bake frozen cookie dough balls for an extra minute, without thawing.

Gingerbread Cheesecake Bars
13 ounces, weight Gingersnap Cookies
6 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Melter
24 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened To Room Temperature
1 cup Granulated Sugar
Pinch Of Kosher Salt
4 Large Eggs
2 Egg Yolks
4 ounces, weight White Chocolate, Melted
1 teaspoon Ground Ginger
1/8 teaspoons Ground Cloves
3/4 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Lemon Zest
3 Tablespoons Molasses
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Spray a 9-inch square baking pan with nonstick spray, and line with a sheet of parchment paper, allowing the excess paper to drape over the sides of the pan.Place gingersnap cookies in the bowl of a food processor, and chop finely. Stir in melted butter and firmly press the mixture into the bottom of the prepared pan.Add cream cheese to the bowl of a stand mixer, mixing on medium-low speed until creamy. Add the sugar and salt mix to combine. Add eggs and yolks, one at a time, stopping to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl with a silicone spatula after each addition. Stir in melted chocolate, spices, lemon zest, molasses, and vanilla.Transfer batter to the prepared pan. Place it in a larger baking dish and pour very hot water into the larger dish until it comes up about 1 inch around the cheesecake pan.Carefully transfer to the oven and bake for 20 minutes at 350ºF. Then lower the oven temperature to 250ºF and bake for another 65 minutes, or until set around the edges but still slightly jiggly in the center. Turn off the oven, and prop the door ajar. Allow the cheesecake to cool slowly in the oven for at least an hour. Refrigerate 2 hours to overnight before removing from the pan and cutting into bars.Garnish cheesecake bars with mini gingerbread cookies or sprinkles!Notes: These bars take some time for cooling, but trust me, they’re so worth it.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Caramel-Filled Chocolate Cookies
2-1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
3/4 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 cup Lightly Packed Brown Sugar
2 sticks Unsalted Butter, At Room Temperature
1 cup White Granulated Sugar, Plus 3 Tablespoons, Divided
2 whole Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1-1/4 cup Chopped Walnuts, Divided
36 whole Rolo Candies, Unwrapped

Preheat oven to 375ºF. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and set aside.In a medium bowl, mix flour, cocoa powder and baking soda. Set aside.In a large mixing bowl, beat brown sugar, 1 cup white sugar, and softened butter until creamy and fluffy. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. Stir in vanilla.With the blender on low speed, gradually add in flour mixture, mixing just until incorporated. Fold in ½ cup chopped walnuts and mix to combine.In a small dish, mix remaining ¾ cup walnuts with 3 tablespoons white sugar.To prepare the cookies, scoop dough into 1 to 1 ½ tablespoon-sized balls. Indent center of dough balls with your finger and place in one unwrapped Rolo candy. Roll dough balls in hands until the Rolo is completely covered in dough.Gently roll prepared dough ball in the walnut-sugar mixture. Move prepared dough balls to the prepared baking sheet. Place dough 2 inches apart on the baking sheet. Repeat with remaining dough balls.Bake cookies 9 to 12 minutes or until set and slightly cracked. Allow cookies to cool on the baking sheet for approximately 2 minutes before moving to a wire rack to cool. Store in an airtight container.

German Hazelnut Macaroons (Nussmakronen)
3 Egg Whites, Large
1 cup Granulated Sugar
1-2/3 cup Ground Hazelnuts
25 Whole Hazelnuts

Preheat oven to 170ºC (340ºF). Line two baking trays with baking paper.Beat egg whites until stiff peaks form. Slowly add sugar and continue beating until mixture is glossy and stiff again. Carefully fold in ground hazelnuts.Fill mixture into a piping bag with a very large nozzle. If you don’t have a very large nozzle, leave the nozzle and use only the piping bag without the nozzle. Pipe about 24 to 26 macaroons on the baking trays. Alternatively, you can use 2 teaspoons to make small heaps on the baking tray. They will not be so regular but they will taste just as good.Place a whole hazelnut in the center of each cookie and press it down gently. Bake cookies for about 15 to 20 minutes or until they start to get golden around the edges.Leave to cool completely, then store in airtight in cookie jars or cookie tins.

Apple Blackberry Pie
2 whole 9-inch Storebought Pie Crusts
4-1/2 cups Peeled And Sliced Apples (I Use Fuji And Granny Smith)
1-1/2 cup Blackberries, Fresh Or Frozen
1/2 cups Lightly Packed Brown Sugar
4 Tablespoons All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 whole Egg
1 teaspoon Water

Preheat oven to 400ºF. Grease a 9-inch round pie dish with cooking spray. Unroll one pie crust into the bottom of the pan and gently press dough into corners. Set aside.In a large bowl, combine apples, blackberries, brown sugar, flour and cinnamon. Toss until all fruit is covered in flour mixture. Pour fruit mixture into the pie crust.Unroll second pie crust and place on top of pie. Seal edges of crust together. Cut 3 to 4 slits in the top of the pie to allow steam to come out.In a small bowl, whisk together egg and water. With a pastry brush, brush some egg over entire crust (this is what will help the crust brown). Place prepared pie in the oven and bake 40 to 50 minutes or until top crust is golden brown. Allow to cool 1 to 2 hours before serving.Notes: While the pie is baking, you may notice that the crust is browning too quickly or becoming too dark. If this is the case, cover the top of the pie with a piece of aluminum foil and continue baking for the remainder of the cook time. Depending on how full your pie is, some juice might leak out of the pie and onto the bottom of the oven. To prevent this, place pie on a baking sheet when baking.

Gingerbread Whoopie Pies (Dairy-Free!)
FOR THE COOKIES:
3-3/4 cups Whole Wheat Pastry Flour
1 teaspoon Sea Salt
1-1/4 teaspoon Baking Soda
1-1/2 teaspoon Ground Ginger
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1/4 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1/4 cups Unsweetened Applesauce
1/2 cups Coconut Sugar
1 Large Egg
1/4 cups Coconut Oil, Melted
3/4 cups Unsulphured Molasses
3/4 cups Coconut Milk, Mixed With 2 Teaspoons Lemon Juice (for Non-dairy Buttermilk)
FOR THE CREAM FILLING:
2 cans (13 1/2 Oz. Size) Coconut Milk, Refrigerated
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 container (6 Oz. Size) Coconut Dream Yogurt
1/4 cups Powdered Coconut Sugar (See Notes)

Preheat oven to 350ºF and line a cookie sheet with parchment paper. Set aside.For the dry ingredients, in a large mixing bowl, combine whole wheat pastry flour, sea salt, baking soda, ground ginger, ground cinnamon, ground cloves, and ground nutmeg and whisk to combine. Set aside.For the wet ingredients, in a separate large bowl, combine unsweetened applesauce, coconut sugar, egg, melted, cooled coconut oil, unsulphured molasses, and non-dairy buttermilk (which can be made by combining coconut milk with lemon juice and letting it sit for 5 minutes).Using a hand mixer or stand mixer, mix until well combined and smooth. Add dry ingredients to the wet ingredients and continue to mix until smooth.Drop a heaping tablespoonful of dough onto a baking sheet. Make sure to leave enough space in between and try to get the amounts as equal as possible.Place into the oven and bake for 8–10 minutes, until edges start to crisp. Remove from oven and carefully transfer to a cooling rack and allow to cool completely. Repeat with remaining cookies.While the cookies are cooling, make the cream filling.Remove the hardened liquid from cans of refrigerated full fat coconut milk and place into a large mixing bowl, along with vanilla extract. Using a hand mixer or stand mixer again, mix this together until smooth and creamy.Add yogurt and continue to mix until combined. Slowly add powdered coconut sugar (which can easily be made by blending together a cup of coconut sugar with 1 tablespoon arrowroot starch in a kitchen blender until the sugar is fine, like powdered sugar).To assemble the whoopie pies, grab one of the cooled gingerbread cookies and spread the coconut sweet cream all over the bottom side, reaching all the way to the edges. Gently top with another cookie, flat side down, to create the whoopie pie.Notes: To make non-dairy buttermilk, combine coconut milk with lemon juice and let it sit for 5 minutes. To make powdered coconut sugar, blend together 1 cup of coconut sugar with 1 tablespoon arrowroot starch until the sugar is fine, like powdered sugar. Use ¼ cup of this mixture in this recipe.

Gingerbread Cupcakes with Brown Sugar Cream Cheese Frosting
1/2 cups Butter
1/2 cups Molasses
1/2 cups Packed Brown Sugar
2 Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla Paste
1-1/2 cup Flour
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1/2 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cups Milk
FOR THE FROSTING:
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese
1-1/4 cup Confectioners Sugar
3/4 cups Brown Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
Gingerbread Sprinkles, For Topping

Preheat oven to 350ºF.In a large bowl, add butter, molasses, and brown sugar; cream well. Add eggs one at a time until well-combined. Add vanilla paste and blend until well-combined.In a separate bowl, mix flour, cinnamon, ginger, cloves, nutmeg, salt, baking soda, baking powder, and salt until well-combined. Add dry ingredients to wet ingredients, alternating and ending with milk.Place cupcake liners in a muffin pan and use an ice cream scoop to fill cupcake liners. Bake for 25–30 minutes or until toothpick comes out clean. Set aside and allow to cool.In a large bowl, cream butter and cream cheese. Add confectioners sugar, brown sugar, and vanilla extract; mix until well-combined.Use an offset spatula or piping bag to add frosting to cupcakes. Top with gingerbread sprinkles. Enjoy!

Butternut Bundt Cake with Orange Glaze & Toasted Nuts
FOR THE CAKE:
1 pound, 6 ounces, weight Butternut Squash
2-3/4 cups Whole Wheat Brown Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Bicarbonate Of Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1-1/2 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Ground Mixed Spice
1/2 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
3 Tablespoons Honey
1/2 cups Olive Oil
1/4 Lemon, Juiced
2 Eggs
1 Orange, Zest Only
FOR THE GLAZE:
1 Orange, Zest And Juice
1/4 Lemon, Juiced
2 Tablespoons White Sugar
FOR THE TOASTED NUTS:
2/3 cups Almonds
1/3 cups Cashews
1/2 Tablespoons Honey
1 teaspoon Brown Sugar

For the cake: Preheat oven to 160ºC (320ºF) and grease an 8- or 9-inch bundt pan.Peel and cube the butternut and boil in 3 cups of water for about 15 minutes until very soft. Drain the squash and mash until smooth.While the squash is cooking, combine flour, baking powder, bicarb, salt and spices in a large mixing bowl.In another bowl, whisk together mashed squash, brown sugar, honey, oil, lemon juice and eggs. Stir in orange zest.Pour wet ingredients into the dry ingredients and mix with a metal spoon until combined. Pour mixture into the bundt pan and bake on the middle rack for about 30 minutes.Allow the cake to cool completely before turning out onto a cooling rack.For the glaze: Mix all ingredients together in a small saucepan. Heat until sugar dissolves and pour over the turned out cake. You might want to place a plate under the cooling rack to catch the drips.For the toasted nuts: Place nuts in a frying pan and toast them on a medium heat until they are golden, stirring often so they don’t burn. Add honey and sugar and stir until the nuts are caramelised and sticky. Pile on top of the cake and serve.

Cherry Pie Foldover Cookies
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1/4 cups Sugar
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese
1 cup Butter
2 Tablespoons Sour Cream
1 can (21 Oz. Size) Cherry Pie Filling

In a large bowl, mix flour and sugar. Cut in cream cheese, butter and sour cream with a pastry blender. Form into a ball and chill for at least 2 hours.Heat oven to 325ºF. Divide dough into quarters. Working with one quarter at a time (keep the rest chilled), roll out into a 10-inch circle on floured surface. Cut circles with a 3-inch cookie cutter.Place 1/2 teaspoon of cherry pie filling into the center of each circle. Fold over and seal the edges with the tines of a fork dipped in flour. Prick the center of each with fork.Bake 18 minutes. Cool on rack and store. These freeze well.

Grinch Cake
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/4 cups Nonsweetened Shredded Coconut
1 cup Lowfat Plain Yogurt
1 cup Sugar
3 whole Large Eggs
1 teaspoon Grated Lemon Zest
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Vegetable Oil
Red And Green Food Coloring

Note: Double the recipe to make 2 cakes, one red and one green.Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease a 9×5 inch loaf pan.In a large bowl, sift flour, baking powder, salt, coconut. In another bowl, whisk yogurt, sugar, eggs, lemon zest and vanilla.Stir the dry ingredients into the wet ingredients. Evenly blend. Slowly whisk in vegetable oil, until batter is thoroughly mixed and no flour can be seen.It is at this time, add the food coloring. (For two cakes, red for first, green for second.) Pour the batter in prepared pan and bake for 50–60 minutes, until toothpick inserted in center comes out clean.Take out of oven. Leave in pan for 10 minutes. Then flip loaf over carefully onto wire rack to cook.For red loaf, slice into 1/2 inch pieces; hearts should be intact. (Sounds awry, but no broken hearts, please.) Use small heart cookie cutter to cut out a hundred hearts (kidding, more like twenty). Stand them upright on bottom right of pan stacked one beside another, leaving room on both ends for green batter to cover.For green loaf, repeat with same ingredients and tint batter green. Pour over the hearts assembled in loaf pan. Red should not show through. Bake this for 50–60 minutes until tester inserted comes out clean.Once out of oven, leave in pan for 10 minutes. Flip carefully onto wire rack.Sprinkle with powdered sugar. Decorate with fondant heart, buttercream. Slice through to be surprised.Inspiration from Grinch cake for Christmas, The Barefoot Baker. Recipe adapted from Barefoot Contessa, Ina Garten’s lemon yogurt cake.

Cream Cheese Sugar Cookies
1 cup Butter
6 ounces, weight Cream Cheese
1-1/3 cup Sugar
2 whole Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1/2 teaspoons Almond Extract
4 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
Colored Sprinkles Or Decorations

In a large mixing bowl, combine butter and cream cheese. Beat until well blended. Add sugar, eggs, and extracts. Beat well. Stir in flour and baking powder.Form into a ball and chill for 2 hours. (If I am in a hurry or don’t feel like waiting around for 2 hours, I place the dough in the freezer for about 20 minutes. It works just as well.)Heat oven to 350ºF.Divide dough into quarters. Work with one quarter at a time, keeping the rest refrigerated. Roll out on a floured surface to about 1/4 inch thickness. Cut into shapes with cookie cutters and place onto ungreased baking sheet.Decorate and bake for 10 to 12 minutes. Cool on rack and store. We like to decorate these cookies with sprinkles and decorations before baking. However, if you prefer a frosted sugar cookie, simply let cool and decorate.This is a kid-friendly recipe and makes 4 dozen cookies.

Baked Vanilla Cheesecake with Cherry Coulis
FOR THE BASE:
200 grams Chocolate Biscuits
4-1/2 Tablespoons Butter, Melted
FOR THE CHEESECAKE:
690 grams Plain Cream Cheese
1/2 cups Sugar
3 Eggs
2 Tablespoons Lemon Juice
1 teaspoon Vanilla Essence
Pinch Of Salt
250 milliliters Pouring Cream
FOR THE COULIS:
5 Fresh Cherries
5 Fresh Strawberries
1 Tablespoon Caster Sugar

For the base: Prepare a springform pan about 10 inches wide and 3 inches tall and line the base with greaseproof paper. Wrap the pan with 2 sheets of heavy duty silver foil.Crush biscuits until fine, or blitz them in a food processor. Pour melted butter in and stir. Press the biscuit mixture into the base of the cheesecake tin and bake at 175ºC (about 350ºF) for 10 minutes. Set aside to cool.For the cheesecake: Beat cream cheese with an electric beater until smooth. Add sugar and beat again until smooth and creamy. Add one egg at a time and beat until fully incorporated, then add the next egg.Add the lemon juice, vanilla essence, pinch of salt and cream and beat until combined. Pour the mixture onto the cool base. Place on a baking tray and put it in the oven on the middle shelf.Carefully pour about 1 inch of boiling water into the baking tray so that the cheesecake will stay extra moist and creamy. Bake for 65 minutes at 175ºC (about 350ºF). If you notice the top browning a bit too much, place a piece of silver foil over the tin and continue baking.Turn off the oven and leave the cheesecake inside for 1 hour to cool down very slowly.For the coulis: Put all ingredients into a small saucepan and simmer on medium heat until the fruit breaks down and a a glaze is forming. Sieve the coulis into a bowl and then spoon over the top of the cool cheesecake. Reserve the whole fruit mixture to add to your breakfast.Notes: If you don’t have a food processor to blitz the biscuits, just place them in a resealable bag and crush them with a rolling pin until they are fine. If your baking tray is not deep enough to add 1 inch of boiling water, use what you have and keep topping the water up every half an hour or so.

Polish Kiffles
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened To Room Temperature
2 sticks Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
2 cups Flour, Plus Additional As Needed
Powdered Sugar, As Needed For Dusting
1 can (12 Oz. Size) Solo Apricot Pastry Filling
1 can (12 Oz. Size) Solo Cherry Pastry Filling
1 whole Egg, Beaten With A Splash Of Water For Egg Wash

First, prepare the dough. Combine the cream cheese and butter in a large mixing bowl and beat them together well with a hand mixer. Slowly add the flour in while you continue to beat the batter until it forms a soft, sticky dough. Bring the dough together into a ball in the bowl with clean hands, then cover it. Let it chill in the refrigerator for three hours. When the three hours are up, pre-heat the oven to 350ºF and line 2 sheet trays with silicone mats.Take the dough and divide it into quarters. Dust a clean work surface with a little flour and powdered sugar and roll the first quarter out until it is 1/8 inch thick. Use a 1 1/2 to 2 inch square cutter, depending on how big you want them, and cut out perfect little squares out of the rolled out dough. Be sure to cut them out as close together as possible to minimize scraps. Take the scraps and roll them out again to cut out as many more squares as possible. Lay the squares out on one of the sheet trays.Scoop 1/2 a teaspoon of the apricot filling into the center of the first square. Then bring two of the opposite corners together and pinch them together well. It will look like a tiny cannoli. Repeat that until all of the squares are filled and formed into the kiffles. Then repeat the process with the next quarter of dough, but use the cherry filling for the second tray. Brush all of the kiffles with the egg wash to help seal them and make them golden, then bake them for 10–12 minutes. They should be golden.When they are done, take them out and let them cool for 5 minutes before transferring them to cooling racks to finish cooling. While they are still warm, dust them with more powdered sugar. Repeat the whole process with the last half of the dough, making a tray of apricot and a tray of cherry. When they are all completely cooled, store them in sealed tins where they will keep for weeks in a cool place. Enjoy giving them out and eating them for the holidays!

Dairy & Sugar Free Almond Chocolate Truffles
1/2 cups Raw Cashew Nuts
1/2 cups Melted Coconut Oil
Pinch Of Salt
1/4 cups Honey
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Essence
1/4 teaspoons Almond Essence
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 cup Cocoa Powder
Shredded Coconut, Ground Almonds, Cranberries Or Cocoa Powder, For Rolling

Process cashews in a food processor until fine. Place cashews in a bowl and add melted coconut oil, salt, honey, vanilla essence, almond essence and cinnamon, mixing well with a metal spoon. Add cocoa and stir until combined. The mixture will be nice and thick. Place in the freezer for 20 minutes.Take about 1 heaping teaspoonful of the mixture and roll into a small ball with your hands. Do this with remaining mixture. Roll each ball in shredded coconut, ground almonds, cranberries or cocoa powder.Store in the fridge until you are ready to eat.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Gingerbread Skillet Cookie
1/2 cups Butter, Softened
3/4 cups Packed Dark Brown Sugar
1/3 cups Molasses
1 Large Egg
2 Tablespoons Water
2-2/3 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1/2 teaspoons Ground Allspice
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves (optional)
Decorator’s Sugar, Optional

Preheat oven to 350°F.In a large bowl, cream butter and brown sugar until light and fluffy. Add molasses, egg and water and beat until combined.In a separate, medium-sized bowl, whisk flour, baking soda, salt, and spices. Gradually add flour mixture to wet ingredients, beating to combine.Press dough in a 10-inch cast iron skillet, making sure it’s evenly distributed. Sprinkle with decorator’s sugar, if desired.Bake until edges are firm and toothpick comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Best eaten warm and topped with some whipped cream (or ice cream!).

Gingerbread Fairies
3-2/3 cups All-purpose Flour
2-1/2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Coriander
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 sticks Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
2-1/2 cups Dark Brown Sugar
2 whole Eggs
1/4 cups Milk
Green Decorating Sugar

Combine the flour, ginger, pumpkin pie spice, cinnamon, baking powder, coriander, and salt together in a bowl and whisk them together to aerate them. Set the bowl aside. Set up a stand mixer with the paddle attachment and combine the butter and brown sugar in its bowl. Beat them together thoroughly, then add in the eggs one at a time. Turn the speed to low and slowly add in the dry ingredients until a soft dough forms. Wrap the dough in plastic and chill it for three hours in the refrigerator.Take the dough out after the three hours is up and let it become a little pliable for a couple of minutes. Pre-heat the oven to 350ºF and line two sheet trays with silicone mats. Cut the dough in half and put half back in the refrigerator to stay cold. Turn the other half out onto a well floured surface and use a floured rolling pin to roll it out to be 1/8-1/4 inch thick. Use a fairy shaped cookie cutter to cut as many cookies out as possible. Dip the cutter in flour if needed to keep the edges clean. Roll the scraps out and cut out even more. Transfer the cookies to the sheet trays, with about 8-10 per sheet.Brush each cookie lightly with the milk and sprinkle them all very generously with the green sugar. Bake them for 10–12 minutes, until the edges start to brown and the cookies are slightly crisp. Let them cool for a couple of minutes before transferring them to racks to finish cooling. Repeat the whole process with the other half of dough. Seal the cookies in tins and leave them for Santa to enjoy!

Slice’n Bake Chocolate Chip Cookies
2-1/4 cups Gluten Free Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt
1 cup Softened Butter (vegan)
3/4 cups Organic Sugar
2 Large Eggs
1 Egg Yolk
3/4 cups Packed Organic Light Brown Sugar
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
2 Tablespoons Flax Seed Meal
2 cups Chocolate Chips

In a large mixing bowl, combine flour, baking soda and salt.In a separate bowl, mix together butter, sugar, eggs, and egg yolk. Add brown sugar, vanilla extract and flax seed meal. Mix until combined.Slowly add in the flour mixture. Pour in chocolate chips and stir.Grab a large sheet or parchment or wax paper. Dump dough onto paper and form into a log. Roll up into the paper, twisting the ends closed (like a candy wrapper). Place in the freezer (I put mine in a freezer bag), until ready to use.When ready to use, preheat oven to 375ºF. Slice off as many cookies as you would like, as thick as you’d like (I do 1/2 inch to 1 inch thick). Bake for 12–15 minutes.

Festive Gingerbread Men
115 grams Dark Brown Sugar
115 grams Butter
100 grams Treacle
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 whole Egg
325 grams Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Ginger
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
FOR THE ICING:
Water (as Needed)
400 grams Icing Sugar
8 drops Food Colouring

In a large bowl, beat together the sugar and butter until light and fluffy (use an electric beater to save your poor arms). Add the treacle, vanilla and egg and beat.In a separate bowl, mix together flour, ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg and baking soda. Then, 1/3 at a time, fold the flour mixture into the sugar and butter bowl. At this point the dough should be sticking together nicely and should be fairly easy to manipulate.Halve the dough and shape each half into a disc and wrap in cling film. Place both halves in the fridge for a minimum of 4 hours.Before removing dough from the fridge, preheat oven to 180º (350ºF).When you remove the dough, place it on a floured surface and roll out until it is roughly 5mm thick. Use gingerbread cookie cutters to cut out gingerbread men. Place on baking trays, around 2 cm apart to make sure they don’t touch when they expand a little in the oven.Bake for 8–10 minutes, until cookies have risen slightly and hardened around the edges, then leave to cool on a cooling rack.For the icing: Add water to the icing sugar a little at a time until you’ve got the right consistency for icing. It should feel fairly stiff when stirring.Separate the icing sugar into however many colours you are using. Add a couple of drops of food colouring into each and stir in. Add one colour of icing to you piping bag, using a very small round nozzle and start icing! And always remember to wash out your piping bag between colours so that they don’t mix.

No-Bake Oreo Chocolate Rum Balls
23 Oreo Cookies
1/2 cups Confectioners Sugar
2 Tablespoons Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1 cup Chopped Walnuts
1/8 teaspoons Salt
3 Tablespoons Honey
1/3 cups Rum
Chocolate Sprinkles, For Coating
Coconut Sprinkles, For Coating
Chopped Nuts, For Coating

In a food processor, add Oreos, sugar, cocoa powder, chopped walnuts, and salt and pulse until finely ground. Add honey and rum and process again. Transfer to a bowl and cover with plastic wrap. Let sit for about 30 minutes in a fridge.Remove from the fridge and make the balls by scooping the mixture using a small ice cream scoop and rolling between your palms. Roll the balls in the coatings. Chill in an airtight container in the fridge before serving. Enjoy!

Almond Blueberry Lemon Energy Bite
1 bag (3 1/2 Oz. Size) Frontier Bites Almond Blueberry Lemon Flavor
1 cup Old Fashioned Oats
5 Dried Apricots Or Dates
2 Tablespoons 100% Maple Syrup
1/2 cups Almond Butter
10 ounces, weight Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
Lollipop Sticks And Sprinkles (optional)

Add all the ingredients to a blender cup except the chocolate chips (I used a Vitamix). Blend until well combined and there are no large chunks left.Grab a spoonful of the mix and roll into a tight ball. Freeze or refrigerate for 5–10 minutes.Meanwhile, melt chocolate chips (using the microwave or a double boiler). Dip the energy balls in the melted chocolate bowl. I used two spoons for this process. If you are adding sprinkles, pour a few over each energy ball. Freeze or refrigerate for an additional 10–20 minutes. If you are making energy-pops, this is the time to insert the lollipop stick.

The Only Butter Cookie Recipe You Need!
1/2 pounds Butter
1 cup Sugar
6 Egg Yolks
1 teaspoon Vanilla
2-1/2 cups Flour
Colored Sugar Sprinkles

Cream butter in a stand mixer. Add sugar to creamed butter and mix. Add egg yolks, vanilla and flour. When combined, fill cookie press and press out cookies.Sprinkle with colored sugar crystals. Bake at 350ºF for 8–9 minutes.

The Best Chocolate Brownie Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
250 grams Dried Dates
2 teaspoons Vanilla Essence
2-1/2 Tablespoons Peanut Butter (No Sugar Or Salt Added)
5 Tablespoons Coconut Milk
1/2 cups Coconut Oil, Melted
3 Eggs, Lightly Beaten
1/2 cups Almonds, Chopped
3/4 cups Plain Flour Or Coconut Flour
3/4 cups Cocoa Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
Pinch Of Salt
FOR THE ICING:
2-1/2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
2 Tablespoons Peanut Butter (No Sugar Or Salt Added)
2 Tablespoons Cocoa Powder
1/4 teaspoons Vanilla Essence
1-1/2 Tablespoon Honey

Preheat oven to 150ºC (300ºF). Grease an 8-inch round cake tin.Blend dates until they start becoming smooth. Add vanilla, peanut butter, coconut milk and coconut oil and blend until smooth. Add eggs and mix in with a fork until combined.Sieve in plain flour or coconut flour, cocoa powder, baking powder and salt. Mix with a spatula until mixture is smooth. Stir in chopped almonds.Pour mixture into the cake tin and flatten with a spatula. (Take some time to get it level as it won’t change shape much while cooking.) Bake for about 25 minutes or until the top of the cake looks cooked. It should be firm to the touch but with a little give. Let cool completely before turning out.For the icing: Melt coconut oil, peanut butter, cocoa and vanilla essence. Take off heat, add honey and stir until combined. Pour icing over the turned out cake. (It’s best to have the cake on the plate you are going to serve it on before you ice it.)Notes: If you use coconut flour, store the cake in the fridge. If you don’t have coconut milk, you can use dairy milk. You can substitute the almonds for any nut of your choice.

Blueberry Gingerbread Loaf
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour, Plus 1 Tablespoon For Blueberries
2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1 teaspoon Salt
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
1/2 cups White Sugar
1/2 cups Packed Light Brown Sugar
1 cup Unsweetened Applesauce
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1-1/2 cup Fresh Or Frozen Blueberries

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Lightly spray a 9×5 inch loaf pan with nonstick cooking spray. Set aside.In a medium bowl, whisk together 1 1/2 cups flour, cinnamon, ginger, salt and cloves. Set aside.In a large bowl, beat softened butter with an electric hand mixer or stand mixer with fitted paddle attachment for about 30 seconds. Slowly add white and brown sugar, beating util combined. Set aside.In a small bowl, stir together applesauce and baking soda. Add applesauce mixture to sugar mixture, beating until combined. Slowly add in flour mixture until just combined.In a small bowl, toss blueberries with remaining 1 tablespoon flour. Gently fold into batter until combined.Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake for 45–50 minutes, or until toothpick inserted into center comes out clean. Cool for 10 minutes in pan, then remove loaf from pan and cool completely on a wire rack. Enjoy!

Chocolate Chunk Oat Bars
1 cup Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cups Butter (or Coconut Oil Or Applesauce)
1 cup Packed Brown Sugar
1 Egg
1 Tablespoon Water
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1-1/2 cup Uncooked Quick Oats
1 cup Semi-sweet Chocolate Chunks, Divided

Preheat oven to 375°F. Grease an 8×8 baking pan.In a small bowl, combine flour, baking powder and salt.In a larger bowl, cream together butter and sugar. Add egg, water and vanilla and blend to combine. Stir in flour mixture and oats. Stir in 1/2 cup chocolate chunks.Spread batter into prepared baking pan and sprinkle remaining chocolate chunks on top. Bake 30 minutes. Cool completely before cutting.

The Best Lemon Bars (That You’d Never Know Were Healthy!)
FOR THE CRUST:
1/4 cups Raw Honey
1/2 cups Coconut Oil, Softened
1/8 teaspoons Sea Salt
1 cup Bob's Red Mill Spelt Flour
1/2 cups Almond Meal
FOR THE LEMON TOPPING:
4 Eggs
1 Egg Yolk
1/3 cups Plus 2 Tablespoons Honey
1 Tablespoon Lemon Zest
3 Tablespoons Bob's Red Mill Arrowroot Starch
3 Tablespoons Bob's Red Mill Spelt Flour
3/4 cups Freshly Squeezed Lemon Juice

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease a 8×8 or 9×9 square pan with coconut oil, then set aside.To make the crust, in a large bowl, combine raw honey, softened coconut oil, and sea salt and blend using a hand mixer, stand mixer or a spoon, until creamy. Slow add spelt flour and almond meal, and continue to mix until a dough forms.Press the flour mixture evenly into the prepared baking dish and bake until lightly golden brown, about 10–12 minutes. Remove from oven and allow to completely cool, about 20–30 minutes.Lower oven temperature 325ºF and grab another mixing bowl.For the topping, in a separate mixing bowl, add eggs, raw honey and lemon zest and gently whisk together to create the topping. Slowly add arrowroot starch and spelt flour until well mixed so no clumps remain. Pour freshly squeezed lemon juice into egg mixture, and whisk until evenly combined.Once crust has completely cooled, carefully pour lemon-egg mixture over the cooled crust and place back in the oven. Bake until topping is just set, and center is just slightly jiggly, about 24–26 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool completely at room temperature.Cover and refrigerate for at least 6 hours, preferably overnight. Once completely cooked, cut into into squares and enjoy!

Snowflake Sugar Cookies (Gluten-Free)
2 cups Gluten Free Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt
1/2 cups Grass Fed Butter, Room Temperature
1 cup Organic Sugar Cane
1 Free Range Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
Organic Vanilla Frosting And Sprinkles, For Topping

Whisk gluten-free, baking powder, and sea salt in a small bowl.In a medium size bowl, whisk butter, sugar, egg and vanilla extract until well combined. Pour half of the flour mix into the egg batter and mix. When combined, add remaining flour and mix until uniform.Place cookie dough on a floured surface or between 2 sheets of parchment paper and roll it out until about ¼ inch thick. Using a snowflake cookie cutter, shape cookies and remove remaining dough to roll out again. Repeat the process until all the dough is gone.Bake at 350ºF degrees for about 7 minutes or until just before the edges start to turn brown. Let cool completely before frosting the cookies. Add sprinkles of choice.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Spiced Festive Ginger & Syrup Cookies
2/3 cups Butter
1/3 cups Brown Sugar
1 Tablespoon Golden Syrup
1-1/2 cup Cake Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
4 teaspoons Ground Ginger
2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
2 teaspoons Ground Mixed Spice
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cloves

Preheat oven to 180ºC (355ºF).Beat butter and sugar with an electric mixer until pale and creamy. Mix in golden syrup. Combine dry ingredients and add to mixture. Mix with a metal spoon until mixture sticks together.Roll into balls, roughly 1 inch round, and place on baking trays, allowing enough room for biscuits to spread. Flatten a bit with your fingers. If you want thin and super crispy biscuits, flatten quite a lot; if you want chunky, softer in the centre biscuits, then flatten to about 1cm thick. (I like them both ways. The thinner biscuits are better for dunking.)Bake for 15–20 minutes until rich golden brown. Store in airtight container.Notes: You can easily double or triple this recipe to make a bigger batch of cookies.

Festive Vegan Grain-Free Cranberry Cookies with a Vanilla Drizzle
1/2 cups Organic Coconut Butter Or Manna, Gently Warmed
1-1/2 Tablespoon Coconut Nectar Or Maple Syrup
1/2 teaspoons Organic Vanilla Extract
10 drops Vanilla Liquid Stevia
1 whole Flax Egg (See Note)
1/4 teaspoons Sea Salt
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/4 cups Unsweetened Shredded Coconut
1/4 cups Organic Cranberries, Finely Chopped
Vanilla Drizzle, For Garnish (optional)

Note: To make 1 flax egg, mix ½ tablespoon freshly ground flax meal with 1 ½ tablespoons water.Preheat oven to 350ºF.Combine coconut butter, coconut nectar, vanilla extract, stevia, flax egg, sea salt, baking soda and cinnamon. Fold in shredded coconut and cranberries. Refrigerate batter for 10–15 minutes.Drop rounded spoonfuls of batter onto a baking pan (I prefer stainless steel) lined with unbleached parchment paper or greased well with coconut oil. Bake cookies for approximately 8–10 minutes.Remove from the oven. Cookies will be very fragile and crumble easily when warm so allow to sit for around 15 minutes on the pan before transfering to cooling rack.Drizzle with vanilla drizzle if desired. Enjoy!

Bakery Style Salted Caramel Cookies
3 cups Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Salt
2 sticks Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature
1/2 cups Sugar
1 cup Brown Sugar, Packed
2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
2 whole Large Eggs, Room Temperature
10 ounces, weight Hershey's Sea Salt Caramel Chips
11 ounces, weight Kraft Caramel Bits
Sea Salt For Garnish

In a medium bowl, mix dry ingredients: flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. Set aside.In a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment or with a hand held mixer, cream butter and sugars. Add vanilla, then add eggs one at a time. Mix, scraping down sides of bowl as necessary.With the mixer on low-speed, slowly add dry ingredients and mix just until dough comes together. Mix in sea salt caramel chips. Place dough in refrigerator for at least 30 minutes or up to 1 hour.Preheat oven to 375ºF and line a baking sheet with parchment paper.Using a small ice cream scoop portion scoops of batter onto the baking sheet. Bake for 9–12 minutes or until edges are golden brown. Baking time will depend on oven and how large or small you scoop your cookies. Let cool on baking sheet for a few minutes than transfer to cooling rack.Melt caramel bits using about half of the water on the package directions. You want to be able to drizzle the caramel, but not have it run all over. Drizzle cookies with caramel and garnish with salt.

4-Ingredient No-Bake Oatmeal Cookies
1-3/4 cup Rolled Or Quick Oats
1/2 cups Almond Butter
1/2 cups Agave Syrup
1/2 cups Chocolate Chips

Put oats in a bowl.In another bowl, add agave and almond butter. Microwave until melted together. I recommend microwaving for 3-4 minutes, then stirring together. Add the mixture to the oats, and mix.Make round cookies and place on a waxed-paper-covered pan. Add chocolate chips. Refrigerate for 30 minutes.

Chocolate Cake with Pumpkin Filling
1 cup Buttermilk
1 cup Water
2/3 cups Canola Oil
2 cups Sugar
2 whole Eggs
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 cups All-purpose Flour
3/4 cups Cocoa Powder
FOR THE FILLING:
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Room Temperature
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin
1/4 cups Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
FOR THE GANACHE:
1/2 cups Whipping Cream
4 ounces, fluid Semi-sweet Chocolate, Chopped

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Spray two round 9×2 cake pans with cooking spray and line with parchment. I buy the pre-cut round parchment liners. Then spray the parchment, too.In a large bowl, mix buttermilk, water, oil, sugar, eggs baking soda, and salt with a whisk. Add flour and cocoa powder and whisk until combined.Pour evenly into prepared pans. Bake for 30–35 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Do not overcook.Mix all filling ingredients in a stand mixer (or hand mixer) until smooth. There might be some cream cheese lumpiness, so keep mixing.When cakes are completely cool, you can assemble. Spread filling over one layer of cake and top with a second layer.Make the ganache by bringing whipped cream to a low boil of medium-high heat. Remove from heat and add chocolate. Let it stand for 5 minutes then stir until smooth. Let it cool for about 10 minutes and stir again.Pour ganache over cake, letting it drip down the sides. Put in refrigerator until set.Recipe from Better Homes and Gardens.

Pecan Pie in a Mug
1 Pastry Dough, Enough For 9-inch Pie
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
1/2 cups Packed Brown Sugar
1/3 cups Light Corn Syrup
2 Small Eggs, Lightly Beaten
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
1/8 teaspoons Salt
1 cup Pecan Halves
Vanilla Ice Cream Or Whipped Cream, For Topping (optional)

Preheat oven to 350°F.Split pie dough into two.On a lightly floured surface, roll out pie dough with a lightly floured rolling pin until a 3-inch circle. Fit each dough into an oven-safe Corningware meal mug, covering the bottom with dough and press the excess dough onto the sides (halfway up). Lightly prick the bottom all over with a fork. Chill until firm, for about 30 minutes.In a medium bowl, whisk together = melted butter and brown sugar until smooth. Whisk in corn syrup, eggs, vanilla, and salt. Distribute the pecans into each mug and pour half of the syrup mixture evenly into each mug.Bake for 20 minutes and then cover loosely with aluminum foil to prevent the top from burning. Bake until filling is set (another 20–25 minutes). Filling should not be overly jiggly and should only jiggle slightly in the center when gently shaken.Remove from oven and cool completely. Serve with a scoop of vanilla ice cream or whipped cream.

Chocolate Almond Pillow Cookies
FOR THE FILLING:
2 Tablespoons Dutch Cocoa Powder
1 Tablespoon Milk Of Choice
7 ounces, weight Almond Paste, Broken Into Small Pieces
1 teaspoon Almond Extract
1 Egg Yolk
FOR THE COOKIE DOUGH:
1/2 cups Butter (softened Slightly)
1/2 cups Shortening
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups Light Brown Sugar, Packed
1 teaspoon Almond Extract
2 Eggs
2-3/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
Sliced Almonds For Decoration

For the filling: In the bowl of a stand mixer, blend all filling ingredients until incorporated. Place in fridge until ready to use.For the cookie dough: In the mixing bowl, add butter and shortening. Using a paddle attachment on medium speed, mix until combined. Scrape down the sides of the bowl.Add granulated sugar and brown sugar. Mix on medium until light and fluffy. Add almond extract and one egg at a time. Once both eggs are incorporated, scrape down the sides of the bowl.Add the flour, baking powder, and salt. Mix on low until the flour starts to combine with the wet mixture, scraping down the sides as you go. Turn speed to medium to thoroughly combine. Chill for 1 hour before using.Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line your cookie sheet with parchment paper.Scoop up about ½ tablespoon of dough and roll into a ball. Repeat with remaining dough and set aside.Scoop about ½ teaspoon of filling and roll into a ball. Repeat this with all dough and set aside.After all the dough is prepped, make a well in the center of the dough using your thumb, add a small filling ball into the middle. Stretch and press the sides up over the top of the filling ball until covered. Roll to a smooth ball. Gently press in sliced almonds for decoration.Place on baking sheet, leaving 1 to 2 inches between each cookie. Bake for 12–15 minutes, depending on the size of your cookies.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Oatmeal Applesauce Cookies
1 cup Rolled Oats
3/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1-1/2 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/8 teaspoons Salt
2 Tablespoons Butter, Melted And Slightly Cooled
1/4 cups Unsweetened Applesauce
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Maple Syrup

Preheat oven to 325ºF and prep a large baking sheet.In a large bowl, add rolled oats, flour, baking powder, cinnamon and salt. Whisk to combine.In a separate bowl, add butter, applesauce, vanilla extract and maple syrup. Whisk to combined and then add to dry ingredients. Stir the mixture until just combined.Scoop dough into 12 even balls on to the baking sheet. Bake for 15–17 minutes or until slightly golden. Allow cookies to cool before serving.

Italian Christmas Cookies (Cuccidati)
FOR THE DOUGH:
2-1/2 cups Sifted All-Purpose Flour
1/2 cups Sugar
2-1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 stick Unsalted Butter
2 Large Eggs
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/4 cups Milk
FOR THE FILLING:
1 pound Dried Figs, Chopped
1 cup Seedless Raisins
1 Orange, Zest And Juice
1/2 pounds Toasted Walnuts, Chopped
1 cup Honey
1/2 cups Dark Rum
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
FOR THE ICING:
3 Tablespoons Freshly Squeezed Orange Juice
1-1/2 cup Powdered Sugar
Colored Sprinkles

To make the dough, process sifted flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a food processor. Add butter and process again. Add eggs, vanilla, and milk and process until a smooth dough forms. Shape into a disk and divide the dough into Wrap in plastic wrap and put into a fridge.For the filling, process figs, raisins, orange zest and juice, and walnuts. Transfer mixture to a bowl and add honey, rum, and ground cinnamon. Mix.Preheat oven to 400°F. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.Take one part of the dough from the fridge and roll into an 8 x 8 inch square. Divide into 2 equal parts. Use cold water to moisten the bottom inch of each part. Arrange 1/4 of the filling on each piece from one end to another. Fold over and press to seal. Cut into 1-inch parts. Arrange on the baking sheet. Repeat with remaining dough.Bake for about 15 minutes. Remove from the oven and transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.While your cookies are cooling, in a small bowl, whisk the sugar and orange juice until smooth. Dip the top of each cookie in the icing. Cover with colored sprinkles.

No-Bake Cookies
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter
1/2 cups Unsweetened Cocoa
2 cups Sugar
1/2 cups Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1 teaspoon Salt
1/2 cups Peanut Butter
3-1/2 cups Instant Oats
1/2 cups Chocolate Chips
1/2 cups M&Ms

In a medium saucepan, melt butter. Stir in cocoa and sugar. Add milk and stir well. Bring to a boil over medium heat, and then keep at a boil for 2 minutes.Remove from heat. Add vanilla, salt, peanut butter and oats and combine well. Mix in chocolate chips and M&Ms.While warm, drop spoonfuls of the cookie mixture onto a parchment-lined cookie sheet. Cool for 30 minutes and enjoy!

Chocolate Peppermint Ice Cream with Peppermint Crunch Marshmallow Swirl
2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
1/2 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/4 teaspoons Peppermint Extract
1/3 cups Peppermint Crunch Baking Chips (I Recommend Andes)
1 cup Marshmallow Creme

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, beat whipping cream until stiff peaks form.In a large bowl and using a rubber spatula, stir together sweetened condensed milk, cocoa powder, and both extracts, stirring until well combined. Fold in whipped cream, making sure all ingredients are combined (this might take a little muscle!).Pour into a 2-quart container (a freezer safe loaf pan works well) and set aside.In a small bowl, stir together peppermint chips and marshmallow creme. Spoon marshmallow/peppermint mixture in 3 dollops on top of ice cream mixture. Using a knife, swirl marshmallow creme through ice cream (be sure to use knife to break up large clumps) until incorporated.Cover pan and freeze for 6 hours, or until firm. If desired, serve with ganache or hot fudge and/or extra peppermint chips.

Harry Potter’s Treacle Tart
FOR THE DOUBLE CRUST:
2-1/2 sticks Butter
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
2 Tablespoons Sugar
1 teaspoon Salt
6 Tablespoons Cold Water
FOR THE FILLING:
4 ounces, weight (about 2 1/2 Cups) Fresh Breadcrumbs
1 Organic Lemon, Zest And Juice
1 cup Golden Syrup
FOR THE EGG WASH:
1 Egg
1 Tablespoon Water

Note: You can also just use store-bought crust.If making the pastry, cut butter into small cubes, place them in one layer on a plate and put them in the freezer for about 15 minutes. They should not be frozen but get really cold.In the meantime, place 2/3 of the flour, sugar and salt in the food processor. Mix well. Add butter cubes and process shortly, about 25 short pulses or about 25 seconds with the Thermomix on level The dough should just begin to clump. Sprinkle the remaining flour on top and pulse about 3-4 times or about 10 seconds on Thermomix on level 4 or until the dough is just barely broken.Transfer mixture to a bowl. Sprinkle with 5 tablespoons of the very cold water and incorporate using a rubber spatula (make sure is a good one, I broke one of mine in the process, but it was a very old one). Fold and press the dough until it comes together. Add the last tablespoon of water if necessary (sometimes I do add it, sometimes not, it depends on how exactly you weigh the flour and sometimes on the brand of flour itself). The dough should hold together when you press a little bit of it between your fingers. Form a ball, divide it into two discs, one a bit larger than the other and wrap the discs tightly in plastic foil. Refrigerate for at least 2 hours or overnight.Preheat oven to 200ºC (400ºF).On a lightly floured surface, roll out the larger disc into a circle large enough to cover the bottom and the edges of your pie form. My pie form has a diameter of 23 cm or 9 inches, so I rolled the dough into a circle of about 26 cm or 10.2-inch diameter. My pie dish also has a removable bottom (like a springform), which makes things easier for me when removing the pie from the form. A regular dish works as well, but you will have to be more careful when taking the tart out of the form. Or use a ceramic pie dish, so you can cut and serve the tart directly from the dish.Place the rolled out pastry sheet into your dish, pressing the dough into the fluted edges of the pan. Roll out the second disc of pastry into a circle of about 3 mm or 1/8-inch thickness and a diameter of about 23 cm or 9 inches. Cut the pastry into long strips for the lattice topping.To make the filling, remove the crust from toast bread, measure the amount needed, and make breadcrumbs in your food processor. Zest and juice the lemon. Place the golden syrup into a small saucepan and warm gently until it is runny; it will not take long. Combine syrup, breadcrumbs, lemon zest and lemon juice well.Pour the filling into the prepared pie dish and level the top. Lay half of the strips over the filling in one direction and the other half of the strips in the other direction to form a lattice. Trim the edges.Mix the egg and the water and brush the lattice and the edges of the pie with the mixture.Bake tart for 10 minutes at 200ºC or 400ºF, then reduce heat to 190ºC or 375ºF and continue baking for another 25 minutes until crust is golden brown and filling puffs up in the center.Apparently, you should serve the tart warm with custard or whipped cream. We had it plain and I liked it even more the next day, when the tart was set and almost cookie-like. But that is a matter of taste. Serve it as you like best.

Cranberry Orange Carrot Cake
2 cups Unbleached All-purpose White Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Salt
2 Eggs
1 cup Shredded Carrots
1/2 cups Maple Syrup
1 cup Organic Valley Grassmilk Plain Yogurt
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Orange Zest
1/3 cups Fresh Orange Juice
1 cup Fresh Cranberries
Orange Slices, For Garnish
FOR THE SPARKLING CRANBERRIES:
1 cup Water
2 cups Sugar, Divided
1 cup Fresh Cranberries
FOR THE ORANGE GLAZE:
1 cup Powdered Sugar
1 Tablespoon Water
1 teaspoon Orange Zest

For the cake: Preheat oven to 350ºF.In a medium bowl, combine flour baking powder, and salt. Set aside.In a large bowl, add eggs, carrots, maple syrup, yogurt, vanilla extract, orange zest and orange juice and mix until well combined. Add flour mixture and mix well. Fold in the cranberries. Pour batter onto a greased loaf pan and bake for 30 minutes.For the sparkling cranberries: Heat the water and 1 cup of sugar, until sugar has completely dissolved (don’t let it boil). Remove from heat and let it cool off almost completely. When cooled, add cranberries and let it bathe in this sugar syrup water for 5 minutes.Pour remaining 1 cup of sugar onto a flat bowl or any flat container with sides. Using a slotted spoon, remove the cranberries from sugar syrup and place it in the sugar bowl. Shake the sugar bowl to coat the cranberries equally with sugar. Remove the cranberries from the sugar bowl and set aside (in the refrigerator, preferably).For the orange glaze: Over low heat, dissolve powdered sugar with 1 tablespoon water, mixing with a rubber spatula to keep the consistency creamy. Add orange zest and mix. Let cool for 1–2 minutes.Once cake is done baking and cooled off, pour orange glaze over it, letting the glaze drip down the sides. Set aside for 1–2 minutes. Add sparkling cranberries and orange slices for a complete and delightful look.

Hagrid’s Rock Cakes
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
3/4 cups Light Brown Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/2 teaspoons Allspice
1-1/2 stick Butter
4-1/2 ounces, weight Mixed Dried Fruits
1 Egg

Preheat oven to 180ºC (350ºF).In a large bowl, mix flour, salt, baking powder, sugar, nutmeg and allspice. Rub in the soft butter until mixture resembles fine breadcrumbs.Chop larger dried fruits into small pieces. Stir all the fruit into the flour mixture.In a small bowl whisk the egg lightly with a fork. Add it to the flour-butter mixture and stir until a stiff dough is formed.Break larger amounts of the dough from the mixture with your hands and place them on the baking tray. They don’t have to be smooth or regular—they should resemble rocks in the end, so be sure you have some irregular, spiky heaps on the tray.Bake in the preheated oven for about 18–20 minutes or until golden brown. Leave to cool on the tray for a few minutes, than transfer to cool on a wire rack.Store in an airtight container.

Red Velvet Marshmallow Crinkles
3 cups All-purpose Flour
1/4 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
3/4 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Butter, Softened
1-1/3 cup Granulated Sugar
3 Large Eggs
1 Tablespoon Milk Or Buttermilk
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Paste (or Extract)
2 teaspoons Lemon Juice
5 teaspoons Red Food Coloring
1 cup White Chocolate Chips
1 cup Powdered Sugar
1 cup Mini Marshmallows

In a mixing bowl, whisk together flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda and salt for 30 seconds, set aside. In the bowl of an electric stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, whip butter and granulated sugar until pale and fluffy. Mix in eggs 1 at a time, blending until combined after each addition. Mix in milk, vanilla bean paste, lemon juice and red food coloring. With mixer set on low speed, slowly add in dry ingredients and mix just until combined. Stir in white chocolate chips. Cover bowl with plastic wrap and chill 2 hours or until firm enough to shape into balls.Preheat oven to 350ºF, preferably on convection setting. Pour powdered sugar into a bowl. Remove dough from refrigerator, scoop dough out and with buttered hands, shape into medium balls (about 2 1/2 tablespoons each). Press a marshmallow into the center of each ball, then cover with a thin dome of dough. Roll cookie dough balls into powdered sugar and evenly coat.Transfer to Silpat or parchment paper lined baking sheets and flatten slightly. Bake in preheated oven 13–14 minutes or 8 minutes for convection. Put outside or in fridge to cool quickly, then allow to rest on cookie sheet several minutes then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely. Store in an airtight container.

Coffee and Cream Shortbreads
2/3 cups Sugar
1 cup Butter, Cold And Cut Into Cubes
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2-1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1 Tablespoon Ground Cardamom
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 Tablespoons Finely Ground Coffee Beans
8 ounces, weight White Chocolate (chips Or Chopped)
1 teaspoon Coconut Oil

Set oven to 350ºF.Put sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer and add butter and salt. Mix until combined. Mix in flour, cardamom, vanilla extract, and ground coffee until dough just comes together.Pull the dough together with your hands and set on a floured surface. Roll out to about 1/4 inch. Cut out the cookies using your preferred cookie cutter. I stamped mine with the words merry using a cookie stamper.Transfer the cookies to a parchment-lined baking sheet and chill briefly, then bake for about 10 minutes. Let cool slightly before transferring to a cooling rack.To make the chocolate coating, put white chocolate and coconut oil in the top of a double boiler. Warm water on medium low. Stir until chocolate is melted, then remove from heat and cool slightly before dipping cookies.Dip half of each cooled cookie in the chocolate, and let the excess drip off. Set the cookies down on parchment paper to harden. Freeze or store in closed container up to 1 week.

Double Chocolate Peppermint Cookies
1-1/2 cup Gluten-free Baking Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 pinch Sea Salt
3 Tablespoons 100% Cocoa Powder
3/4 cups Brown Sugar
1 cup Shortening
1 teaspoon Vanilla Or Peppermint Extract
1/2 cups Maple Syrup
1 cup Semi-sweet Chocolate Chip (gluten-free)
Crushed Candy Cane Or Peppermint Sprinkles, For Garnish

Preheat oven to 350ºF.In a medium bowl whisk flour, baking soda, salt and cocoa powder. Set aside.In a large bowl, combine brown sugar, shortening, vanilla or peppermint extract and maple syrup until creamy and uniform. Add half of the flour mix into the liquids and stir to combine. Add the remaining half and continue to stir until uniform. This is going to look thick; use your hands if easier. When the batter is uniform, add the chocolate chips and fold.Form small size balls in the palm of your hands and press down slightly. Bake for 13–15 minutes.Remove from oven, let cool off for no more than 2–3 minutes, then sprinkle with peppermint sprinkles or broken candy cane pieces.

No-Bake Peppermint Bark Cheesecake
1 package (15 1/4 Oz. Size) Oreo Cookies, Ground Into Crumbs (I Used The "Winter Red" Variety, But Any Kind Will Do)
5 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, melted
24 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened
1/2 cups White Sugar
2 teaspoons Peppermint Extract
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
4 drops Red Food Coloring
8 ounces, weight Whipped Topping (such As Cool Whip)
1/2 cups Crushed Peppermint Candies Or Candy Canes, Plus More For Topping
1/2 cups Heavy Cream
6 ounces, weight White Chocolate Wafers Or Bar (if Using A Bar, Finely Chop)

In a medium bowl, combine Oreo crumbs and melted butter. Press crumb mixture into the bottom and up the sides of a 9-inch spring form pan. Place in refrigerator to firm up while preparing filling.In a large bowl, beat cream cheese, sugar, peppermint extract, and vanilla extract until smooth. Add red food coloring and stir to combine. Fold in whipped topping and crushed peppermint candy until completely combined.Spread filling evenly into prepared cookie crust. Cover and refrigerate for at least 4 hours, or overnight.To make the white chocolate ganache, in a small saucepan, heat heavy cream until boiling. Remove from heat and stir in white chocolate until completely melted. Set aside to cool.Pour ganache over chilled cheesecake and lightly spread with a spatula. Top with more crushed peppermint candy, if desired. Refrigerate until firm.

Peach Halves with Mincemeat
2 cans (29 Oz. Size) Peach Halves In Syrup
1 jar (16 Oz. Size) Mincemeat

Preheat oven to 350ºF and get out a 9 x 13 baking dish.Remove the peaches from the cans and line them up in the baking dish. Fill the empty pit of each peach half with a generous spoonful of the mincemeat, then get the dish into the oven to bake them for 20 minutes.Serve hot immediately when they are done! So easy!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Nutty Chocolate Chip Cookies
2-1/2 cups Gluten-free Baking Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 pinch Salt
2 sticks Butter, At Room Temperature
1/2 cups Sugar Cane Sugar
3/4 cups Brown Sugar
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Bean Paste
2 Eggs
2 cups Gluten Free Chocolate Chips, Divided
1 cup Pistachios, Divided
1/2 cups Dried Cranberries
Sea Salt

Preheat oven to 375ºF. Cover 2 large cookie sheets with parchment paper or silicone mat.In a medium bowl, mix flour, baking soda and salt. Set aside.In a large bowl, combine butter, sugars and vanilla. Mix until creamy. Add eggs and mix to combine. Add in half of the flour mixture and stir to combine. Add remaining flour mixture and continue to stir until batter is uniform. Fold in 1 cup of chocolate chips, ½ cup pistachios and dried cranberries.Scoop up about 1-tablespoon size of batter and roll into a ball. Place 2 inches apart on the cookie sheet. Bake for 10–12 minutes or until golden brown. Remove from oven and transfer cookies to a cooling rack for 5 minutes.Meanwhile, melt remaining 1 cup of chocolate chips in the microwave in intervals of 20 seconds, stirring it with a silicone spatula in between until chocolate has completely melted.When the cookies are cooled off, dip cookies halfway in the melted dark chocolate. Place back on the cooling rack and sprinkle with sea salt or remaining crushed pistachios (not both). Be sure to leave some cookies plain (not dipped in chocolate). When you can no longer dip the cookies in the chocolate bowl, scoop up the remaining chocolate into a small resealable bag. Make a small cut in one of the corners of the ziplock bag and squeeze chocolate lines over the cookie

4-Ingredient Jam Thumbprint Cookies
1/2 cups Coconut Oil, At Room Temperature
1/3 cups Cranberry-maple Syrup
2 cups Flour
1 cup Cranberry Jam, Or As Needed

Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F).Combine coconut oil and cranberry-maple syrup. Add to flour and mix everything until well-combined.Cover baking tray with baking paper. Make small balls out of the mixture and press your thumb into the center of each ball to make an indentation, but make sure you don’t go all the way down. Fill each cookie with jam. The best ways is to use a coffee spoon.Bake for 10–12 minutes. The cookies may seem a bit soft, but they get harder and crispy when they cool down.

Apple Fritter Mascarpone Shortcake Bars
FOR THE SHORTCAKE:
8 Tablespoons Butter, Softened
1/3 cups Brown Sugar Blend
1 cup Flour (any)
1 Tablespoon Cornstarch
1/4 teaspoons Coarse Salt
FOR THE MASCARPONE FILLING:
8 ounces, weight Mascarpone
2 Tablespoons Truvia Nectar (or Honey)
1 whole Large Egg
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE APPLE FRITTER:
1 whole Large Apple, Sliced
1/4 cups Rolled (old Fashioned) Oats
1-1/2 Tablespoon Truvia Nectar (or Honey)
1-1/2 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon

Preheat oven to 325ºF.In a mixing bowl, cream butter and brown sugar with a hand mixer, until fluffy. Slowly mix in flour, corn starch and salt, until mixture forms small pea-sized balls (like pie dough). Press into an ungreased 8- or 9-inch brownie pie. Bake 10 minutes, until shortcake starts to rise. Remove from oven and allow to slightly cool.In a separate mixing bowl, whip mascarpone, nectar, egg and vanilla extract with a hand mixer, until fluffy. When shortcake is slightly cooled, pour mixture onto the crust and spread evenly.In a mixing bowl, toss apple slices, oats, nectar and cinnamon until combined. Line apple slices on mascarpone filling, and sprinkle with remaining oat topping. Bake 25–30 minutes, until mascarpone filling is set. Allow to completely cool in the refrigerator or freezer before slicing.

Peppermint Shortbread Cookies
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
2 Tablespoons Coconut Sugar (or Organic Cane Sugar)
1/8 teaspoons Food-grade Peppermint Oil Or 1/4 Teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups White Whole Wheat Flour (or Sub All-purpose Flour)
1 pinch Fine Grain Sea Salt
2 Tablespoons Crushed Peppermint Candy Cane, Divided
1 Tablespoon Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
1/4 teaspoons Melted Coconut Oil

Preheat toaster oven to 350ºF.In a small bowl, use a wooden spoon to cream together butter, coconut sugar and peppermint oil or vanilla extract until light and fluffy. You can accomplish this quicker with a hand mixer if you like.Stir in flour, sea salt and 1 tablespoon of the crushed peppermint. Mix until a dough forms.Shape dough into twelve 1-inch sized balls and place on a greased or silpat-lined cookie sheet.Bake cookies 12–15 minutes. The cookies will be ready when their tops are firm to the touch. Allow cookies to cool on the sheet for 3–4 minutes and then transfer to a baking rack to cool completely around 30 minutes.Once cookies have cooled, melt chocolate chips and coconut oil in the microwave, stirring every 8 to 10 seconds until smooth. Dip the top of each cookie into the chocolate or drizzle chocolate onto cookies and sprinkle with remaining tablespoon of crushed peppermint candy cane. Allow chocolate to set, about 20 minutes.

Cookies & Cream Fudge
7 ounces, weight Mini Chocolate Sandwich Cookies (Oreos)
3 cups Granulated White Sugar
3/4 cups Butter
1 can (5 Oz. Size) Evaporated Milk
1 jar (7 Oz. Size) Marshmallow Fluff
1 bag (11 1/2 Oz. Size) White Chocolate Chips
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract

Line a 9 x 13 pan with aluminum foil (for easiest cleanup afterwards).Chop cookies in a food processor, or break some other way. (You can sift out smallest crumbs for a whiter overall appearance of the fudge base.)Heat sugar, butter, and milk over medium high heat to boiling. Turn heat down to medium and continue to boil until mixture reaches soft ball stage (234ºF) on candy thermometer, stirring constantly.Turn off heat, add marshmallow fluff and white chocolate chips. Stir in chopped cookies and vanilla extract.Spread in prepared 9 x 13 pan, let cool for a few hours, then cut into pieces. Seal in an airtight container.Note: It is easy to make a variety of fudges from this base. Instead of white chocolate, add another bag of chips such as butterscotch or cinnamon. Make it a different flavor with extracts such as maple or orange instead of vanilla. Mix in nuts if desired—use your imagination!

Chocolate Peppermint Sandwich Cookies
2-1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1-1/2 teaspoon Cornstarch
1/2 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
1/4 cups Loosely Packed Light Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1 Large Egg Plus 1 Egg Yolk, At Room Temperature
2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
1/2 cups Festive M&Ms
FOR THE FILLING:
4 ounces, fluid Cream Cheese, Softened
4 Tablespoons Butter, At Room Temperature
1/4 teaspoons Peppermint Extract
1 cup Confectioners Sugar
1/2 cups Crushed Candy Canes

Whisk flour, baking soda, cornstarch, and salt together in a large bowl. Set aside.In a medium bowl, whisk melted butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar together until no brown sugar lumps remain. Whisk in egg, then the egg yolk. Finally, whisk in vanilla extract. Pour the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients and mix together with a large spoon or rubber spatula. Fold in the chocolate chips and M&Ms. Cover the dough and chill in the refrigerator for 3 hours. Do not skip chilling or your cookies will spread too much. The longer the better.Remove the dough out of the refrigerator and allow to slightly soften at room temperature for 10 minutes.Preheat oven to 325°F. Line two large baking sheets with parchment paper. Set aside.Roll the dough into balls, about 3 tablespoons of dough each. Place 8 balls of dough onto each cookie sheet. Press a few more M&Ms on top of the dough balls. Bake cookies for 11–12 minutes. The cookies will look very soft and underbaked. They will continue to bake on the cookie sheet. Allow to cool on the cookie sheet for 10 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely.Beat cream cheese, butter and peppermint extract together until soft and fluffy. Add powdered sugar a little bit at a time and keep mixing until smooth. The filling should be of spreadable consistency. Stick it in the fridge for 20 minutes.Add a dollop of the chilled filling on one cookie and press it down with another one. Roll the edges of the sandwich cookies in the crushed candy canes so that the crushed pieces stick to the filling.

Slice ‘n Bake Pumpkin Oatmeal Cookies
2-1/4 cups Gluten Free Flour
1 cup Gluten Free Oats
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Nutmeg
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Organic Sugar
3/4 cups Light Brown Sugar, Packed
1 cup Vegan Butter
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
2 Large Eggs
1 Egg Yolk
1 Tablespoon Chia Seeds
2 Tablespoons Ground Flax Seeds
1 can (16 Oz. Size) Pumpkin Puree

Add all dry ingredients (flour, oats, spices, baking soda, salt) to a bowl and whisk together. In a large bowl, mix together sugars, softened butter and vanilla (you can do this by hand of with a mixer). Add eggs, egg yolk, chia and flax seeds and pumpkin puree. Mix until combined. Slowly stir in dry ingredients, incorporating 1/3 of the dry mix at a time. Mix together until all ingredients are combined.Chill dough for at least 20 minutes.You can bake as usual here if you don’t want to slice and bake. Just scoop a tablespoon of dough onto a greased cookies sheet and bake.Grab parchment paper and tear off enough for the length of your cookie log and some extra on the ends. Place dough on the paper and spread out into your log shape. Slowly roll the paper along the length of the dough, so you wrap up the cookie log. Tuck the ends under, place in our freezer bag and store until you are ready to bake.To bake, preheat oven to 375ºF. Grab dough log from the freezer.Slice off 1/2 inch cookie (as many as you need). Peel off the parchment paper and place on a cookie. Bake for 12–15 minutes. Repeat as necessary.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Traditional Pumpkin Pie
FOR THE PUMPKIN PUREE:
1 whole (about 3 Lb. Size) Pumpkin
FOR THE PIE CRUST:
3 cups Flour
1 teaspoon Salt
3 sticks Cold Butter, Cut Into Cubes
1 Egg, Lightly Beaten
5 Tablespoons Cold Water
1 Tablespoon White Wine Vinegar
FOR THE FILLING:
3/4 cups Sugar
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves
2 Eggs
15 ounces, weight Pumpkin Puree
1 cup Half-and-half
1 cup Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla

For the pumpkin puree: Preheat oven to 375°F. Wash the pumpkin to remove any dirt. Cut the pumpkin in half and remove stem. Remove all of the seeds and stringiness from the center of the pumpkin.Place the pumpkin halves cut-side down onto a baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Roast for 45 minutes to 1 hour, or until skin darkens and is shriveled. The pumpkin should be very soft.With a spoon, scoop the pumpkin out of the skin and transfer to a food processor. Puree until completely smooth.For the pie crust: Combine flour and salt in a large bowl.n a food processor, add flour and cold butter. Pulse a few times until lightly combined. With the motor running, add egg, cold water, and vinegar into dough. Pulse until just combined (dough might be slightly crumbly).Remove dough from bowl and gather it into a ball with your hands. Divide the dough in half and slightly flatten it into a disc. Wrap the dough discs with plastic wrap and refrigerate for 30 minutes. (Dough recipe is enough for 2 pies or 1 pie with leaf decorations.)To assemble the pie: Preheat oven to 425°F.In a small bowl, combine sugar, cinnamon, salt, ginger, and cloves.In a large bowl, whisk eggs. Add pumpkin puree and sugar mixture. Whisk in half-and-half, milk and vanilla until well combined.On a floured surface, use a rolling pin to roll out chilled dough into a round shape. The dough should be at least 1 inch larger than your pie dish. Carefully place the dough into the pie dish. Tuck excess dough under itself. Crimp the edges with your fingers (optional).Pour filling into unbaked pie shell. Bake 15 minutes at 425°F. Then reduce oven temperature to 350°F and continue baking for 45–60 minutes or until edges seem dry and center is set but slightly jiggly. If you are going to decorate pie with leaves, roll out remaining dough and cut out leaf shapes. When the pie has been baking for 40 minutes, remove from oven and quickly lay leaf cut-outs over crust. Continue baking until pie is done.Remove pie from oven and place on a cooling rack to cool completely. Serve immediately or refrigerate.

Healthy Pecan Pie
1/2 cups Raw Honey
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil, Melted
3 pieces Eggs
1/2 teaspoons Fresh Orange Zest
1/8 teaspoons Sea Salt
1 Tablespoon Unsweetened Almond Milk
1 teaspoon Ground Ground Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
3 Tablespoons Whole Wheat Pastry Flour
2 cups Raw Pecans
1 whole Pie Crust

Preheat oven to 400ºF.In a large bowl, combine raw honey, coconut oil, eggs, fresh orange zest, sea salt, unsweetened almond milk, ground cinnamon, pure vanilla extract, and whole wheat pastry flour. Stir to combine.Arrange the raw pecans into the prepared 9-inch pie crust. Pour the liquid filling mixture over the pecans, spreading some with a spoon if necessary.Place into the oven and bake for 10 minutes at 400ºF, then reduce the temperature to 350ºF and bake for 20–25 minutes. The pie will rise in the oven. You’ll know it’s done when it has small cracks in the top and is no longer giggly.Remove from oven and allow to cool, preferably overnight.

Double All Butter Pie Crust
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Fine Salt
1 teaspoon Sugar
16 Tablespoons Cold Unsalted Butter, Cubed
6 Tablespoons Ice Cold Water (and Up To 2 Additional Tablespoons)

In the bowl of a food processor fitted with the metal chopping blade, place flour, salt, and sugar; pulse several times to combine. Add cold cubed butter and pulse processor on and off until butter pieces are the size of peas.Turn the machine on and drizzle ice water slowly until small clumps of dough start to stick together. You’ll know you’ve added enough water when the moistened clumps hold together in the palm of your hand when squeezed.Transfer to plastic wrap or resealable storage bag and press into a round disk shape (two if making the double crust recipe). Chill for at least 1 hour or up to 3 days before rolling. Dough can also be frozen for up to a month.

Nutella Chocolate Shortbread Tartlets
FOR THE CHOCOLATE SHORTBREAD CRUST:
1-3/4 cup All-purpose Flour
1/4 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1 teaspoon Salt
2 sticks Unsalted Butter, Softened
1/2 cups Powdered Sugar
FOR THE NUTELLA FILLING:
1 cup Whipping Cream
1 cup Nutella
2 Tablespoons Sea Salt Flakes

In a large bowl, sift flour, cocoa powder and salt. Set aside.Cream butter and powdered sugar in a bowl of a standing mixer until light and fluffy. Reduce speed to low and beat in the flour mixture until just incorporated.Gather dough and form a disc. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for about 30 minutes to chill.Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease 12 mini-tart pans a regular-sized muffin pan.On a lightly floured surface, roll out the dough to 1/4-inch thickness. Cut into 5-inch rounds. Line the prepared pans with the dough circles. Use a small kitchen knife to trim the excess and to score the tops of the tartlets.Place in the refrigerator for about 15 minutes before baking for 10 to 15 minutes or until lightly golden. Remove from oven and let the tart shells cool a few minutes before inverting and transferring them to a wire rack to cool completely.To prepare filling, in the bowl of a standing mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, beat the cream until it holds firm peaks. Fold in Nutella to combine.Spoon the Nutella mixture into the cooled shortbread tartlet crusts, and place them in the refrigerator to chill for at least 1 hour.Sprinkle sea salt flakes on top of the tartlets before serving.

Peanut M&M Bars
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Melted, Plus 1 Tablespoon For Greasing Baking Dish
1 whole Egg, Beaten
1/2 cups Creamy Peanut Butter
1 cup Light Brown Sugar
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 cup All-purpose Flour
2 cups Peanut M&Ms;, Divided

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Add butter, egg, peanut butter, and brown sugar into a mixing bowl. Mix until creamy, then add vanilla and flour. Continue to mix so flour is nicely incorporated. Add 1 1/2 cups peanut M&Ms. Gently stir.Lightly butter a baking dish large enough to hold the mixture. Scoop the batter into the dish, then top with remaining M&Ms.Bake for about 30 minutes. The batter should come out clean when inserting your knife. Let bars cool before slicing into squares.

Baked Pumpkin Doughnuts with Chocolate Glaze
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
3/4 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 pinch Cloves
1 pinch Allspice
1 pinch Freshly Grated Nutmeg
1 whole Large Egg
3/4 cups Light Brown Sugar, Packed
3/4 cups Pumpkin Puree
3/4 cups Buttermilk
1 dash Vanilla Extract
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
FOR THE GLAZE:
3 ounces, weight Bittersweet Or Semisweet Chocolate, Finely Chopped
1/2 cups Heavy Cream
1 pinch Salt
1/4 cups Toasted, Salted Walnuts, Roughly Chopped

Preheat oven to 350°F. Grease a 6-cavity doughnut pan (or 2 pans if you have them).In a large bowl, whisk together the dry ingredients (flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg).In another bowl, whisk egg and sugar. Whisk in pumpkin puree, followed by buttermilk and vanilla. Stir in butter.Whisk wet ingredients into dry ingredients in 2-3 additions until just combined. Transfer batter to a piping bag or plastic Ziploc, and cut off the tip. Pipe half of the batter into the prepared pan, filling nearly to the top. Alternatively, you can fill the pan using two spoons, and then smooth out the top.Bake on the center rack of the oven for 10–14 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Allow to cool in the pan for 5 minutes, then turn out onto a wire rack to cool completely. Repeat with remaining half of the batter.When doughnuts are cooled, prepare the glaze. Place chopped chocolate in a bowl. Add cream and salt to a small pot and warm over medium heat. When cream comes to a simmer, remove from heat and pour over the chocolate. Allow to sit for about 2 minutes, then stir to combine. Cool slightly.Dip the tops of the doughnuts into the glaze, flip and return to the wire rack. After dipping all of the doughnuts, sprinkle with the chopped nuts. Allow the glaze to cool at room temperature, then transfer to the fridge until the glaze sets completely. Enjoy.

Bourbon Bacon Pecan Pie
FOR THE CRUST:
1-1/4 cup All-purpose Flour
1 Tablespoon Cocoa Powder
2 teaspoons Granulated Sugar
1 pinch Salt
1 stick Cold Butter Cubed
1/4 teaspoons Bourbon
1 whole Egg
FOR THE FILLING:
4 slices Thick Cut Bacon
5 Tablespoons Butter
1 cup Dark Brown Sugar
3/4 cups Light Corn Syrup
1 Tablespoon Maple Syrup
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/2 pounds Chopped Pecans
2 Tablespoons Bourbon
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
3 whole Eggs, Lightly Beaten

First prepare the crust. Set up a food processor and combine the flour, cocoa powder, sugar and salt in its bowl. Pulse it all together a couple of times to aerate the dry ingredients. Add the butter and pulse it a few more times until it resembles pebbly sand. Pour in the bourbon and egg last and pulse it a few more times just until the dough starts to come together. Do not let it turn into a ball in the processor. Turn it out of the processor and bring it into a ball by hand. Then press it out into a disc and wrap it in plastic wrap. Chill it for an hour in the refrigerator.Get out a 9-inch pie dish and spray it well with cooking spray, especially around the rim. Take the chilled pie dough and turn it out onto a clean, floured surface. Roll it out to be a thin circle that is about 10-11 inches in diameter and transfer it into the pie dish. Press it into the dish firmly and also around the rim. Trim off any excess, then use a fork to make the pretty, signature tine marks around the edge. Put the pie crust in the freezer to chill again for 20 minutes.Preheat oven to 400ºF when the chilling time is almost up. Take the pie crust out and line it with aluminum foil. Fill it with either dry beans or pie weights to keep it from puffing up or collapsing while blind baking. Bake the crust for 20 minutes, then take it out and remove the foil with the weights. Put it back in to bake for another 10 minutes to allow the bottom to get more crisp. Take it out when it is done and set it aside. Reduce the heat to 35While the crust bakes, prepare the filling. Cook the bacon either in a skillet or in the oven until it is cooked through and crispy. Crumble it up finely and set it aside. Combine the butter, brown sugar, corn syrup, maple syrup, and cinnamon in a medium saucepan and bring it to a gentle boil over medium high heat. Stirring constantly, let it boil for 1–2 minutes so that it thickens. Take the pan off of the heat and stir in the pecans, bacon, bourbon and vanilla. Let the mixture cool for 5 minutes, then stir in the beaten eggs.Pour the filling into the crust and place it onto a sheet tray to make it easier to take in and out of the oven. Let the pie bake for 40–45 minutes, until set but the center is still a little loose. Let the pie cool for 15–20 minutes at least, then slice and serve with whipped cream or ice cream! It’s perfect for the holidays.

Prickly Pear Candy
1 cup Pureed Prickly Pear Cactus Fruit, Peeled, De-seeded
3 cups Applesauce, Sugar-free
6 teaspoons Pectin
5 cups Sugar, Plus More For Dredging

Scoop prickly pear flesh from the skin and place in blender; puree. Strain prickly pear puree to remove seeds and add to a large saucepan. Add applesauce.In a separate bowl, add pectin and 1 cup of the sugar and whisk together. Add to fruit puree and bring to a boil. Add remaining sugar and bring back up to a boil. Stir constantly until thermometer reaches 225°F.Remove from heat and pour into a greased 13×9 pan. Let cool about 1 hour and sprinkle with sugar. Let dry overnight (or around 12 hours).Cut into one inch squares. Add sugar to a baggie and add a few pieces at a time to cover with sugar. Place on parchment paper and let dry for 6 hours (or preferably 1–2 more days, turning occasionally).Store for up to 2 weeks.

Gluten-Free Chocolate Pecan Pie Bars
FOR THE CRUST:
1 cup Unsalted Butter, Softened
1-1/2 cup Bob's Red Mill 1 To 1 Gluten Free Flour
1 cup Bob's Red Mill Almond Flour
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE FILLING:
3 whole Eggs
3/4 cups Light Corn Syrup
1/2 cups Light Brown Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla
2 cups Unsalted Pecans, Coarsely Chopped
1 cup Gluten Free Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a 13 x 9-inch baking pan with parchment paper and spray with nonstick spray. I like to spray the pan too before I put the parchment in. This makes it stick.First, make the crust. Put butter, both flours, brown sugar and salt into the bowl of an electric mixer and stir until coarse crumbs form. Press into prepared baking pan. Bake for 11–15 minutes or until lightly browned.Next, make the filling. In another bowl, whisk eggs, corn syrup, brown sugar, and vanilla until well-mixed Fold in pecans and chocolate chips. Pour filling over the cooked crust and bake for 25–35 minutes or until set. Remove from oven and let cool completely before cutting.

Wine Cookies
270 grams Plain Flour
100 grams Caster Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt
80 milliliters Extra Virgin Olive Oil
80 milliliters White Wine
5 Tablespoons Icing Sugar

In a mixing bowl, combine flour, caster sugar, baking powder, and salt. Add oil and wine. Combine. Form into dough (this can be done in the mixing bowl or you can knead the dough on your worktop).Roll dough into a sausage and cut equal size pieces. You should get about 20 pieces. Form these into balls. Using your finger or the end of a wooden spoon, make a hole in the middle of each ball and stretch the hole more.Place them onto a baking tray lined with baking paper or silicone mat. Bake at 180ºC (356ºF) for 25 minutes or until bottoms are golden brown. Let cool a bit before coating in icing sugar.Keep in an airtight container!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Pumpkin Cheesecake Bars
FOR THE CRUST:
2 cups (about 9 Ounces) Gingersnap Cookie Crumbs
1 cup Pecans
1/4 cups Packed Light Brown Sugar
2 Tablespoons Chopped Crystallized Ginger
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
FOR THE CHEESECAKE FILLING:
16 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Room Temperature
1 cup Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups Pumpkin Puree
3 Eggs
1-1/2 Tablespoon All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/8 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg (freshly Grated Can Also Be Used)
1/8 teaspoons Ground Allspice
1/8 teaspoons Salt
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE TOPPING:
2 cups Mini Marshmallows (or Large Marshmallows Cut Into 1/2 Inch Cubes)
1/4 cups Whole Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/8 teaspoons Salt
1 cup Sour Cream

For the crust: Preheat oven to 350°F. Line a 9×13 baking dish with parchment or foil (making sure parchment or foil comes slightly over sides of pan) and spray with cooking spray.In the bowl of a food processor, grind gingersnap crumbs, pecans, brown sugar, and ginger until pecans are finely ground. Gradually add the melted butter using brief pulses to blend.Transfer crust mixture to prepared pan and press evenly across the bottom. Bake 10 minutes, or until crust is set and lightly browned. Remove from oven and place on a wire rack to cool.While crust is cooling, make the filling.For the filling: In a large bowl using an electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add pumpkin, mixing until combined.Beating on low speed, add eggs one at a time, mixing briefly after each addition. Add flour, spices, and salt, beating until just blended. Add vanilla and beat to combine.Transfer filling to crust and bake for 35 minutes, or until filling is just set in the center and edges begin to crack. Remove from oven and place on a cooling rack to cool, about 1 hour.Transfer cheesecake to fridge and chill uncovered for 3–4 hours, or overnight.For the topping: In a medium saucepan set over low heat, stir together marshmallows and milk, until marshmallows are melted. Remove from heat then stir in vanilla and salt. Let mixture cool to room temperature, stirring occasionally.Once mixture is at room temperature, add sour cream. Stir (using a combination of stirring and folding) until combined. Pour topping over top of cheesecake. Spread evenly and leave about 1/2 inch uncovered around the edges. Return to fridge and let topping sit at least 1 hour, preferably longer.When ready to serve, remove cheesecake from pan by gripping parchment or foil corners and lifting out. Cut into squares sized about 2 ½ inch x 2 ½ inch (or your desired size) and place on a serving plate or platter.

Almost-No-Bake Pumpkin Tart
FOR THE CRUST:
2-1/2 cups Graham Cracker Crumbs
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
FOR THE PUMPKIN FILLING:
1 package (1/4 Oz. Size) Unflavoured Gelatin Powder
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Ground Ginger
1/2 teaspoons Salt
14 ounces, fluid Condensed Milk
2 whole Eggs, Light Beaten
2 cups Pumpkin Puree
FOR THE MERINGUE TOPPING:
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Egg Whites
1 Tablespoon Water

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease springform pan(s).To prepare crust, combine graham cracker crumbs and melted butter in a small bowl. Mix until a moist yet crumbly mixture forms. Firmly press the mixture into the bottom and sides of the prepared pan. Bake for 10 minutes. Let cool completely on a wire rack.To prepare filling, combine gelatin, cinnamon, ginger, salt, condensed milk and eggs in a saucepan. Let stand for 10 minutes. Then cook over low heat, whisking continuously, until gelatin dissolves. Remove from heat. Stir in pumpkin. Mix to combine.Pour the mixture into the cooled graham cracker crust. Refrigerate tart(s) until set, at least 3 hours, or preferably overnight.Before serving, prepare meringue topping. In a large heatproof bowl, combine sugar and egg whites. Using a handheld electric mixer, beat on high speed until foamy for a minute. Set bowl over a pan of barely simmering water. Beat on high speed until stiff peaks form, about 6 minutes. Remove from heat, stir in water, and beat for another 2 minutes until mixture thickens.Transfer meringue to a large pastry bag fitted with a wide plain pastry tip and pipe large tips on the tart(s). Using a kitchen torch, lightly brown the meringue.

Butterless Flaky Pie Crust
1/2 cups Coconut Oil
1-1/4 cup Whole Wheat Pastry Flour
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt
1/2 teaspoons Coconut Sugar
6 Tablespoons Ice Water, Plus More If Needed

To get the coconut oil solid so we can break it into pieces, spread out the coconut oil into an even layer over a sheet of parchment paper and then place into the freezer for about 15–20 minutes to fully harden.In a food processor, combine whole wheat pastry flour, sea salt and coconut sugar. (You could also combine in a large bowl and mix with your hands.) Pulse the food processor a few times to mix.Break hardened coconut oil into small chunks. Add the pieces of hardened coconut oil, pulsing just as much as necessary to break the pieces into even pea-size lumps.Add ice cold water, 1 tablespoon at a time, pulsing in between, until dough sticks to itself when pinched. (I always need more water, but I start with just 4-5 tablespoons to be safe.)Remove flour mixture from the food processor and place onto a clean, dry, flat surface, then gently shape into a disk. If the dough is too crumbly and refuses to cooperate, you can add more water, tablespoon by tablespoon, as needed.Wrap the disk in plastic wrap. Place in fridge for at least 10 minutes. Remove the chilled disk from the refrigerator and let sit at room temperature for about 5 minutes to make it easier to roll out.Flour your surface with more of the whole wheat pastry flour. Using a rolling pin on your well-floured surface, roll out dough to form an approximate 12-inch circle. Be sure to continue to flip the dough over and generously flour each side so as not to have the rolled-out dough stick to the surface. (If it doesn’t cooperate despite heavy flouring, roll it back up into a ball and start again. That’s ok.)Place the rolled-out dough onto a 9-inch pie plate. Gently press the pie dough down so that it meets the bottom and sides of the pie dish. Using a knife, carefully trim the dough around the top edge of the pie dish, leaving about a ¼-inch to ½-inch overlap. Fold the edge of the over and under the edge of itself, pressing together. You could leave the edge as is, or to style it more, you can either crimp the edges using your thumb and forefinger or press with a fork.Now, all you need to do is fill this pie crust with your filling and you’re good to go! Bake according to your pie recipe.

Sweet Potato Pie with Marshmallow Meringue
FOR THE PIE:
4 cups Mashed Sweet Potatoes (about 2 Pounds Sweet Potatoes)
1/2 cups Butter, Melted
3 Large Eggs
1/2 cups Sugar
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Sweetened, Condensed Milk
1/2 cups Evaporated Milk
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Ground Nutmeg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Orange Zest
1 teaspoon Grated Ginger
1 Frozen Pie Crust, Thawed
FOR THE MERINGUE:
1 jar (7 Oz. Size) Kraft Jet-Puffed Marshmallow Creme
3 Large Egg Whites
1/8 teaspoons Salt
1 teaspoon Creme Of Tartar
1/4 cups Sugar

For the pie: Preheat oven to 350ºF.In the bowl of a stand mixer combine sweet potatoes, butter, eggs, sugars, milks and spices. Beat until well combined and creamy. Roll out pie crust into 9-inch pie pan, crimping the edges. Spread sweet potato filling into the pie mold.Bake on the lower oven rack for 45 to 50 minutes or until set. Transfer pie to cooling rack. Refrigerate pie at least 4 hours or overnight.For the meringue: Preheat oven to 400ºF.Scoop marshmallow fluff into one large bowl. In a separate bowl, beat egg whites with salt and creme of tartar until foamy. Continue beating egg whites adding sugar a little at a time until stiff glossy peaks form. Fold egg whites into marshmallow fluff 1/2 cup at a time until fully incorporated. It will be sticky at first but it will become easier as you add the egg whites to the marshmallow fluff.Mound meringue on top of the center of cold pie. Spread with the back of spatula or spoon to create peaks. Place in the heated oven for 5 minutes or until meringue is lightly brown. Place on cooling rack and let meringue cool before serving.Notes: Pie can be made in advance and kept in the refrigerator. When ready, whip up the meringue and brown in the oven. It is important that you use sweet potatoes that have been baked and not boiled. Using baked sweet potato mash keeps the potatoes from getting waterlogged, which can result in a mushy pie.Recipe adapted from Southern Living November 2001.

Vanilla Cupcakes with Peppermint Frosting
FOR THE CUPCAKES:
1-1/4 cup Bob's Red Mill Organic Unbleached All-Purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2 Eggs
3/4 cups White Sugar
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Vanilla Greek Yogurt
FOR THE PEPPERMINT FROSTING:
1 cup Unsalted Butter, Softened
4 cups Powdered Sugar
2 Tablespoons Milk Or Heavy Cream
2 teaspoons Peppermint Extract
10 Peppermint Candies Or 4 Regular Size Candy Canes, Crushed

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a 12-count muffin tin with paper liners. Set aside.In a medium bowl, whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Set aside.In a large bowl, beat eggs and sugar with a hand mixer or stand mixer with fitted paddle attachment until pale yellow and fluffy, about 2–3 minutes. Add softened butter and vanilla extract and beat until incorporated. Mix in yogurt.Pour flour mixture into wet ingredients and stir until just combined. Spoon batter into prepared muffin tin, filling about 3/4 full.Bake for 18–20 minutes, or until toothpick inserted in middle comes out clean. Let cool for 10 minutes in pan, and then move to a wire rack to cool completely.To make the peppermint frosting, cream softened butter in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add powdered sugar, 1/2 cup at a time, mixing to incorporate. Add milk and peppermint extract, beating to combine.Pipe or spread over cooled cupcakes. Then top with crushed peppermint candies/candy canes. Alternatively, you could stir candy into frosting and then pipe, if desired.Enjoy!

Easy Apple Pie
8 whole Medium Apples, Peeled And Thinly Sliced
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/3 cups Sugar
1/4 cups Flour
1 teaspoon Ground Ginger
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
2 whole Pie Crusts, Rolled Out To Fit A 9-inch Pie Pan

Mix apples, salt, sugar, flour, ginger, and cinnamon in a large bowl. Place 1 pie crust in the bottom of the pie plate, and fill with the apples. They should heap way over the top of the pie plate. Top with the second pie crust. Trim any crust edges (save the extra pie crust for something else!), and pinch the 2 crusts together with your fingers. Cut slits in the top of the pie to vent.If baking now, preheat oven to 400ºF and cook for 40–50 minutes until golden brown and bubbly at the center.If making this in advance, cover and freeze the uncooked pie. Preheat oven to 400ºF, uncover the pie, and cook from frozen for 40–60 minutes until golden brown and bubbly at the center. If crust browns too much before the filling is hot, tent with foil for the final 15 or so minutes of cooking.Let rest for 10 minutes before slicing and serving. Enjoy!

Chocolat Peppermint Cups
10 ounces, weight Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips (Milk Chocolate Or Dark Chocolate)
10 ounces, weight White Chocolate Chips
4 whole Candy Cane (crushed) Or Candy Cane Peppermint Sprinkles

Bring about 1 inch of water to a boil in a saucepan. Set the heatproof bowl in the mouth of the pot, making sure the water doesn’t touch the bottom of the bowl. Add milk chocolate chips to the bowl and stir occasionally as it softens. When chocolate is completely melted, remove bowl from heat.Pour a thin layer of melted chocolate into each silicone cup (about 1 tablespoon each) and place it in the freezer for 15 minutes.Meanwhile, repeat steps to melt white chocolate chips. Set aside.Place candy cane in a tight zipper bag. Place bag on a soft hand towel and crush it with a hard object (I used my stone mortar and pestle), or try and find peppermint sprinkles (which I later found at Home Goods).Remove the chocolate cups from freezer and pour a thin layer of melted white chocolate into each silicone cup (about 1 tbsp each). Sprinkle with peppermint pieces (be sure to break it down to different sizes, some should be super grainy and fine while other pieces should be a little bigger).Place it in the freezer for an additional 30 minutes. Easily remove the chocolate cups from silicone mold. Keep remaining chocolate peppermint cups refrigerated.

All-Butter Food Processor Pie Crust
1 stick Salted Butter
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1 Tablespoon Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Salt
8 Tablespoons Ice Water, Or As Needed

Cut butter into cubes and place in the freezer for 5–10 minutes. While butter is chilling, pulse flour, sugar, and salt in the food processor to combine.Add cold butter cubes and pulse about 10 times to break up the butter just a bit. Stream in water and blend into the flour mixture until a dough just barely starts to come together—it will still be crumbly.Dump the dough onto a cutting board sprinkled with a bit of flour. Split the dough into 2 mounds and form each into a flat disk about 1-inch thick. Wrap the disks in plastic wrap or a plastic bag. Refrigerate for 1 hour or until ready to use.Make any pie you like! Enjoy.Recipe and method adapted from Epicurious.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Chocolate Chip Peanut Butter Cookies
1 cup Butter
1 cup Peanut Butter
1 cup Sugar
1 cup Brown Sugar
2 whole Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla
3 cups Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt
12 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate Chips

Heat oven to 350ºF.In a large mixing bowl, combine butter, peanut butter and sugars. Beat 2 minutes on medium high speed. Add eggs and vanilla and beat for an additional minute or until well blended.In a smaller bowl, combine flour, baking soda and salt. Gradually add to butter mixture and beat well. Stir in chocolate chips.Drop by teaspoonfuls onto ungreased baking sheet, 2 inches apart. Bake for 12 minutes. Cool on baking sheet for 2–3 minutes and then transfer to wire rack. Cool completely.These cookies store well and freeze well. This recipes makes 5 dozen cookies.

Kolokotes (Cypriot Pumpkin Pies)
FOR THE FILLING:
3 cups Pumpkin, Chopped Into Small Pieces
1 cup Raisins
1/2 cups Coarse Bulgur Wheat
1/3 cups Olive Oil
1 Tablespoon Sugar
1-1/2 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/2 teaspoons Black Pepper
FOR THE DOUGH:
3 cups Bread Flour
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Salt
1/2 cups Olive Oil
1 Tablespoon Vinegar
1 cup Warm Water

Prepare filling the night before. Add all ingredients to a large bowl. Cover and place in refrigerator overnight, or for at least 3 hours so that the bulgur can absorb the liquid.Prepare the dough by combining flours and salt in the bowl of an electric mixer. Add oil and mix on low speed with the hook attachment. Add vinegar and warm water and mix until dough forms. Add more flour or warm water if needed until dough forms a ball. Cover with plastic wrap and let sit for 1 hour.Preheat oven to 375°FSeparate dough into 3 or 4 pieces so that it is easier to work with. Roll out dough into a circle on a lightly floured surface. (If the dough is hard to roll out and seems to be pulling back in, let rest for another 15 minutes.) Cut out 4- to 5-inch circles.Place 2 heaping tablespoons of filling in the center of each circle. Fold one side over to form a half-moon shape. Pinch the edges tightly together and place on baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Continue until all of the dough and filling is used up.Bake in preheated oven for 25–30 minutes or until tops are golden brown. Allow to cool and enjoy.

Cookies and Cream Pastry Swirls
1 Egg
1 Tablespoon Water
10 Chocolate Sandwich Cookies (like Oreos)
1 Tablespoon Melted Butter
1 whole Sheet Pepperidge Farm® Puff Pastry, Thawed

Preheat oven to 400ºF. Whisk egg and water in a small bowl to create an egg wash.Open cookies and scrape the inside filling into one bowl; place the wafers in another bowl. Set bowl with filling aside.In the bowl of a food processor, pulse cookies only until crumbly. Add melted butter and pulse until combined and crumbs are moistened.On a clean and lightly floured surface, unfold pastry sheet and lightly roll out about an additional inch on each side. Brush the pastry with the egg wash. Top with cookie crumbles and spread to evenly coat, leaving about an inch on the top and bottom clear. Gently press the crumbs into the pastry.Starting on the side closest to you, roll up the pastry all the way to the end. Slice into about 10 1-inch slices and place on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Brush the tops with additional egg wash. Bake for 15 minutes until golden brown.While those are baking, melt the cookie filling. Using a double boiler, allow the filling to melt, stirring occasionally. Alternatively, you can pop the bowl in your microwave in 10-second increments, stirring between each round, until completely melted.Use the melted filling to drizzle over the top of the finished swirls. I would highly recommend serving warm, but they are just as delicious at room temperature.

Dairy-Free Peaches and Cream Crumble
FOR THE PEACHES:
2 Peaches, Halved And Pitted
4 teaspoons Coconut Oil, Melted
Cinnamon To Taste (Optional)
FOR THE FILLING:
1/4 cups Coconut Oil, Melted
1/2 cups Almond Flour
1/4 cups Shredded Coconut
4 Dates, Pitted And Chopped
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/8 teaspoons Sea Salt
Cashew Cream, To Serve (See Notes)

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Halve and pit each peach. Set aside.Put 1 teaspoon coconut oil into each of four slots or cavities of your oversized muffin tin. (I put a little water in any remaining slots that aren’t being used.) Sprinkle a little cinnamon in, if you would like. Place the pan in the oven while it is warming up. This will melt your coconut oil quickly. Remove pan once oil has melted into the cavities.For the filling, in a high-speed blender, combine ¼ cup melted coconut oil with almond flour, shredded coconut, dates, cinnamon, and sea salt. Blend until crumbly. If you want a softer filling, add a little more melted coconut oil to the mixture. This is also helpful if your blender gets jammed with the filling. (I melted the ¼ cup coconut oil in an oven-safe dish at the same time I melted the other coconut oil.)Scoop the blended mixture into each peach half and place in the muffin tin. Bake at 350ºF for 25–30 minutes. To prevent burning, it is suggested you cover your peaches with foil for at least 15–20 minutes of baking time.Notes: I like to add ½ to 1 teapoon vanilla to the cashew cream before topping the peaches with it. I then scoop approximately 2 tablespoons cashew cream onto each baked peach crumble and sprinkle additional cinnamon or top with fresh fruit for good measure. And, about that foil, how long you choose to cover the baking peaches depends on how crispy you like your desserts. I let mine brown a little, and it was delicious. But I have discovered over the years, this definitely one of personal preference. To make the cashew cream, soak approximately 1 cup of cashews in warm water for at least 2–3 hours. Combine cashews and soaking water in a high-speed blender. Blend on low speed for 5–6 minutes or until cashews have been creamed. Store in a glass jar in the refrigerator for up to 1 week.

Pumpkin Spiced Cannolis
FOR THE FILLING:
1 pound Whole Milk Ricotta Cheese
1/2 pounds Pumpkin Cream Cheese
1-1/2 cup Powdered Sugar
1-1/2 teaspoon Pumpkin Pie Spice
1 teaspoon Pumpkin Spice Extract
FOR THE CANNOLI SHELLS:
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1 Tablespoon Pumpkin Pie Spice
1 pinch Salt
2 Tablespoons Cold Butter, Cubed Small
1 whole Egg, Separated
1/4 cups Pumpkin Spiced Coffee Creamer
1/4 cups Cold Water
Vegetable Oil, For Frying
Powdered Sugar, For Topping

First, make the filling. Combine all of the ingredients in a large mixing bowl, then use a hand mixer to whip it all together. Cover it and store it in the refrigerator until you are ready to fill the cannolis. Then, start on the shells. Set up a food processor and combine the flour, pumpkin spice and salt in its bowl. Pulse it a few times to aerate the dry ingredients. Add the butter and egg yolk and pulse it more to make the mixture pebbly. Finally, with the processor running slowly pour in the coffee creamer and cold water until it comes together into a soft dough.Bring the dough together into a ball and turn it out onto a clean surface, preferably parchment paper. Knead it for a couple of turns to bring it together. Then cut it in half and roll the first half out thin enough to go through a pasta roller. Put the first half through the pasta roller twice on the widest setting, then twice more on the third widest setting. It will be very long, so cut it in half to make it more manageable. Repeat the process with the other half of the dough.Use a 3 1/2 inch square cutter to cut out perfect squares from the dough. You should be able to get 6 from each sheet for 24 shells total. Then fill a large stainless steel skillet with deep sides with about 3 inches of the vegetable oil. Heat it up over medium high heat and use a deep fry thermometer to make sure the temperature gets to and stays around 35Use cannoli molds to form the shells by wrapping the squares tightly around them with two of the corners overlapping in the middle. It’s like closing a diamond. Press the overlapping corners together firmly and seal the two corners together by brushing them with the egg white.Fry the cannoli shells in batches of 4-6 for about 3 minutes, until the shells get crispy and golden. Remove them to a plate lined with paper towel to let them drain and cool. Then gently slide the shells off of the molds and form the next batch. Be sure to keep monitoring the oil heat. Once the shells are all fried and completely cooled, transfer the filling to a large pastry bag. Fill all of the shells generously, then sprinkle the cannolis with powdered sugar on top using a sifter. Serve immediately for an amazing dessert! The two components can also be made ahead. Just fill and dust the cannolis before serving so that the shells don’t get soggy.

Lemon Lime Coconut Sugar Cookies
1 Large Egg Yolk, At Room Temperature
1-1/2 teaspoon Melted Coconut Oil
1/4 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
1/4 cups Coconut Sugar
1/4 cups White Whole Wheat Flour
1/8 teaspoons Fine Grain Sea Salt
1/8 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Finely Grated Lemon Peel
1/2 teaspoons Finely Grated Lime Peel

Preheat toaster oven to 350ºF and lightly oil cookie sheet or line it with a toaster oven Silpat.In a small bowl, whisk together egg yolk and oil until combined. Add vanilla and coconut sugar, whisking well. Using a spoon, stir in the flour, salt, baking soda, grated lemon and lime peel. The dough may seem dry at first just keep stirring until a sticky dough forms.Drop dough by rounded 1/2 teaspoonfuls at least 1-inch apart onto the prepared baking sheet (the cookies will spread while baking). Bake cookies for 8 to 11 minutes until the tops are set and they are lightly golden browned around the edges.Allow cookies to cool completely on the baking sheet before enjoying.

Fried Apple Rings
60 grams Plain Flour
3 Tablespoons Milk
1 teaspoon Rum
1 Egg
1 Tablespoon Caster Sugar Or Vanilla Flavored Sugar
2 Large Apples
300 milliliters Vegetable Oil Or Sunflower Oil
FOR THE COATING:
1/4 cups Icing Sugar Or Caster Sugar
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon

In a soup bowl, mix flour, milk, rum, egg, and 1 tablespoon sugar until you get a nice smooth batter.Wash and peel apples. Slice them into thin slices (you should get 5-6 slices out of each apple) and remove the core using a small round cookie cutter. Or use an apple corer, if you have one.Heat oil in a frying pan. Dip each ring in the batter and fry until both sides are golden brown. Frying 12 apple slices takes about 5 minutes.Place each apple ring onto a paper kitchen towel to get rid of the excess oil. While still warm, coat them in cinnamon sugar (mix sugar and cinnamon in a bowl).

Sweet Potato Pecan Pie
1 whole 9 Inch Pie Crust
FOR THE SWEET POTATO MIXTURE:
2 whole Sweet Potatoes, Peeled And Cut Into 1-inch Cubes
1 stick Unsalted Butter, Softened
1/2 cups Milk
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Nutmeg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
3/4 cups White Granulated Sugar
2 whole Eggs
FOR THE PECAN MIXTURE:
2 whole Eggs
1/3 cups White Granulated Sugar
1/3 cups Maple Syrup
1-1/4 cup Chopped Pecans

Fill a large pot with water and begin heating. Meanwhile, peel and cut sweet potatoes and place in the water. Allow water and potatoes to come to a boil, and cook for 15 minutes or until potatoes are soft. Once soft, drain potatoes and set aside.While potatoes cook, preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease a 9-inch pie dish with cooking spray. Place pie crust into the greased pan, pressing dough gently into sides. Set aside.For the pecan mixture, in a small bowl, whisk together eggs, sugar, and syrup. Toss in chopped pecans and stir to coat.For the sweet potato mixture, take a large bowl and place butter in bowl. Top with cooked sweet potatoes and milk. Beat with a handheld mixer until smooth. Add in remaining ingredients, stirring until well combined. Pour mixture into prepared pie dish.Top sweet potato pie with pecan mixture. Gently spread pecan mixture to cover pie. Place in the oven and bake for 1 hour. Remove from the oven and allow to cool 30 minutes before serving.

Homemade Shortbread Cookies (3-Petaled Flowers)
1 cup Cake Flour
1/2 cups Powdered Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1/3 cups Vegetable Oil
1 drop Yellow Food Coloring (your Choice)

Place flour, powdered sugar, salt, and vanilla in a medium mixing bowl. Mix with your fingers. Knead until it forms a dough. Slowly add vegetable oil and mix. Add food colouring and mix. Dough should not be sticky or crumbly.Portion dough into 10 small balls. Cover with a tea towel and let rest 2–5 minutes. Then slice them into quarters and assemble on a lined baking sheet, using 3 pieces for each flower so that each flower has 3 petals. Take some of the remaining dough and roll into smaller balls. Place in the middle of the petals to complete the flower.Bake at 250ºF for 15 minutes or until cookies are lightly browned. Remove from oven, transfer cookies to a cooling rack. Serve and enjoy.

Healthy Carrot Cake
FOR THE CARROT CAKE:
1-1/2 cup Whole Wheat Pastry Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1/4 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/8 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1/8 teaspoons Ground Cloves
2 Large Eggs
1/4 cups Coconut Oil, Melted
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2/3 cups Pure Maple Syrup
1/2 cups Plain Greek Yogurt
1/3 cups Plain Unsweetened Almond Milk
2 cups Carrots, Grated (about 3 Medium)
1/2 cups Raisins
FOR THE FROSTING:
1-1/2 cup Cups Plain Greek Yogurt
2 Tablespoons Pure Maple Syrup
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

Preheat oven to 350ºF and coat a 9×13 baking pan with coconut oil.In a medium mixing bowl, combine flour, baking soda, cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger, ground cloves, and set aside.In a separate mixing bowl, whisk together eggs, coconut oil, vanilla extract, pure maple syrup, yogurt, and almond milk. Add wet ingredients to the dry and stir until just incorporated. Fold in carrots and raisins.Bake for 20–25 minutes until inserted toothpick comes out clean. Allow to cool completely to room temperature before frosting.To prepare the frosting, stir together yogurt, pure maple syrup, and vanilla extract. Spread on top of the cooled cake.Let the frosting set for 1–2 hours before slicing and serving.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Pumpkin-Ginger Black Tea Cake
2/3 cups Water
4 whole Celestial Seasonings Sweet Harvest Pumpkin Black Tea Bags
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1 teaspoon Ground Ginger
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/8 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1/2 cups Unsulphured Molasses
1/2 cups Light Brown Sugar, Packed
1/4 cups Sour Cream
2 Tablespoons Finely Grated Fresh Ginger
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 whole Large Eggs, At Room Temperature
1/2 cups Vegetable Oil
FOR THE FROSTING:
3/4 cups Cold Heavy Cream
4 ounces, weight Cream Cheese (softened At Room Temperature)
2 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Softened At Room Temperature
1/4 cups Light Honey
1 dash Vanilla Extract
1 pinch Salt
3/4 cups Powdered Sugar, Sifted
1/4 cups Toasted Pecans, Finely Chopped, For Toppingtoasted Pecans, Finely Chopped, For Topping

Preheat oven to 350°F. Butter a 9-inch round cake pan, line the bottom with parchment and butter again.In a small pot, bring water and tea bags to a boil. Remove from heat. Allow to steep while preparing the remaining ingredients.Meanwhile, in a large bowl, mix together the dry ingredients (flour, baking soda, salt, ginger, cinnamon, cloves).Whisk together molasses, sugar, sour cream, grated ginger and vanilla in another bowl. Whisk in eggs, one at a time, until incorporated. Slowly stream in oil, while whisking constantly.Remove tea bags from boiling tea, squeezing out any liquid. Slowly pour hot tea into wet ingredients, while whisking constantly.Whisk wet ingredients into dry ingredients in 2-3 additions. Incorporate fully, but do not over-mix. Pour batter into prepared cake pan.Bake on the center rack of the oven for 25–35 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean, and the cake is springy to the touch. Allow to cool completely on a wire rack. When cooled, run a knife around the sides to loosen the cake, and invert onto a plate. Peel away parchment paper, and invert onto another plate, so the cake is top-side-up.For the frosting, whip heavy cream on high-speed in a standing mixer, using the whisk attachment, for about 1 to 1 ½ minutes, or until soft peaks form. Transfer to a bowl and refrigerate until ready to use.Add cream cheese and butter to the mixing bowl. Using the paddle attachment, whip together until smooth. Add honey, vanilla and salt, and blend until well-combined.Add powdered sugar in 2-3 additions, and mix on low-speed until incorporated. Remove bowl from the mixer. Gently fold whipped cream into the frosting base, in 3 additions, until combined. Transfer to the fridge until ready use.To frost the cake, use an offset spatula and frost the top, leaving the sides bare, if desired. Sprinkle chopped pecans around the rim of the cake. Enjoy.Note: You will need about 4-5 inches of fresh ginger to yield 2 tablespoons of finely grated ginger.

Carrot Cake with Apples and Macadamia Nuts
1-1/2 cup Cane Sugar
1 cup Plain Greek Yogurt
1 teaspoon Vanilla
2 Eggs
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
2 cups Shredded Carrots (about 4-5 Medium)
1 whole Apple, Peeled And Finely Diced
1 cup Macadamia Nuts, Chopped

Heat oven to 350ºF. Grease and flour a 9 x 13 baking pan.Mix cane sugar, yogurt, vanilla and eggs in a large bowl until well blended.Mix together flour, cinnamon, baking soda and nutmeg. Stir into the egg mixture. Stir in carrots, apple and nuts.Pour into prepared pan. Bake 35 to 40 minutes or until toothpick inserted in center of cake comes out clean. Cool on wire rack and sprinkle with powdered sugar, if desired.

Caramelized White Chocolate
1 cup Chopped White Chocolate (See Note)

Preheat oven to 250ºF.Spread chopped white chocolate evenly on a small rimmed cookie sheet. Place in the oven for 5 minutes, then smooth with a spatula to flatten it out.Place the white chocolate into the oven in 8–10 minute intervals, stirring and re-spreading the white chocolate each time. Each time you pull the white chocolate out of the oven, it should look closer and closer to a caramel color and have a smoother and smoother consistency.After 4 to 5 intervals or about 40 minutes, the white chocolate should be a deep beige color and smooth in texture. The caramelized white chocolate can now be used for a variety of recipes, in place of regular white chocolate. Drizzle it on top of baked goods, use as the base of a buttercream or frosting, or let it harden at room temperature and mix it into cookies or scones. Enjoy!Note: Be sure the white chocolate you’re using is true white chocolate, not white chocolate coating or white chocolate morsels. Also make sure to use a high-quality white chocolate that is high in cocoa butter, about 30%. Many of the quality brands will list the approximate percentage. Brands like Valrhona, Callebaut, and Scharffenberger are good choices.

Pumpkin-Oatmeal Chocolate Chunk Cookies
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1-1/3 cup Rolled Oats
1-1/4 teaspoon Baking Powder
1-1/2 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Ground Ginger
1 teaspoon Kosher Salt
1/2 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1 cup Butter, Softened
1 cup Light Brown Sugar
1 cup Granulated Sugar
1 Large Egg, At Room Temperature
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
15 ounces, weight Canned Pumpkin Purée
2 cups Chocolate Chunks (or Chips)

In a medium-sized mixing bowl, whisk flour, oats, baking powder, cinnamon, ginger, salt, and nutmeg. Set aside.Cream together butter and sugars in a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment on medium speed. Stop the mixer and scrape down the sides when necessary and mix until fluffy.Add egg and vanilla. Continue to mix in the mixer at medium speed, until it is incorporated.Add half of the dry oat/flour mixture and mix until just incorporated, on low speed. Add half of the pumpkin and mix until just incorporated. Repeat with remaining flour mixture and pumpkin.Refrigerate for 1 hour in a tightly sealed container.Preheat oven to 350ºF. Drop dough onto a nonstick cookie sheet about 1 tablespoon at a time, leaving them at least 1 1/2 inches apart. (It helps to have multiple cookie sheets for this recipe.)Bake for 12 minutes. Rotate pans and bake for an additional 12 minutes. Let cookies cool completely before removing from the pan.

Homemade Peanut Cupcakes
258 grams Cake Flour
2-1/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
169 grams Butter
268 grams Sugar
3 whole Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla
150 milliliters Milk
25 grams Chopped Peanuts
20 grams Sprinkles

Sift flour and baking powder three times into a small bowl. Set aside.In the bowl of your electric mixer, beat butter until soft and creamy, about 1–2 minutes. Gradually add sugar and beat until light and fluffy, about 3–5 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. Add vanilla and beat until combined.With mixer on low speed, add flour mixture in three parts, alternating with milk and beginning and ending with flour. Beat after each addition, until combined. Add chopped peanut and sprinkles. Mix well.Line cupcake tin or muffin tin with paper cups (recipe makes 18 cupcakes). Pour batter into cups. Fill about 2/3 full. Don’t overfill.Bake at 177ºC (350ºF) for about 20 minutes. Cupcakes are ready when the top springs back when you touch it with your finger.Serve and enjoy.

Heavenly Homemade Doughnut Holes
1 can (16 1/3 Oz. Size) Biscuit Dough
5 cups Vegetable Oil
1 cup Sugar

Cut each biscuit into quarters. Roll into small balls.Heat oil to 37ºF in a deep pot. The oil is the right temperature when you place the end of a wooden spoon in the oil and bubbles form around the spoon.Gently drop 4 or 5 doughnut holes at a time into the oil, using a strainer with a long handle gently roll the holes. Cook approximately 45 seconds, until golden. Remove from the oil and place on a paper-towel-lined plate.Toss with sugar to coat.

Low Sugar Gingerbread Men
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
2/3 cups Ground Almonds
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
2-1/2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/2 teaspoons Ground Mixed Spice
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter
1/2 cups Xylitol
1 teaspoon Molasses
2 Tablespoons Rice Syrup
3 Tablespoons Milk

Mix flour, ground almonds, bicarbonate of soda and ground spices together in a bowl.Over low-medium heat, heat remaining ingredients (except the milk) in a saucepan until everything is melted and xylitol dissolved. Pour wet ingredients into the dry and mix to form a dough, using a little milk if needed to make a soft but not sticky dough.Press into a disc shape and wrap in cling film, then chill in the fridge for 10 minutes.Preheat oven to 180ºC (350ºF or gas 4).Roll dough out and cut shapes, placing them on baking-paper-lined baking trays. Refrigerate again for 5–10 minutes.Bake in the preheated oven for 15 minutes, or until biscuits are just starting to get deep golden colour on the edges. Allow to cool completely.Note: See related blog post for a sugar free icing to use on the cookies.

Chocolate Almond Dates
16 Soft Medjool Date (The Softer, The Better)
3/4 cups Almonds (2-3 Almonds Per Date, Depending On Size Of Date)
8 ounces, weight Vegan Chocolate Chips (I Love Enjoy Life Brand)
1 teaspoon Coconut Oil (optional)
Coarse Sea Salt, For Sprinkling

Remove pits from dates and replace with 2 to 3 almonds (use as many almonds as desired, this will vary based on size of date). Make sure the date is wrapped around the almonds tightly.In a double boiler, melt chocolate with coconut oil if desired. Dip dates in chocolate using tongs and cover each date completely with chocolate.Place on a baking sheet covered in parchment paper. Sprinkle dates with coarse sea salt and place baking sheet in fridge for at least 1 hour or until chocolate is firm. Keep refrigerated. These dates will last in the fridge for up to 1 week.

Maple Chocolate Pecan Bars
FOR THE CRUST:
3/4 cups Whole Wheat Flour
1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1/3 cups Dark Brown Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cups Olive Oil
FOR THE FILLING:
6 Tablespoons Coconut Oil, Melted
1/3 cups Maple Syrup
2/3 cups Dark Brown Sugar
1/3 cups Coconut Milk
2 cups Whole Pecans
1/2 cups Dark Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Prepare a medium baking pan and set aside.To make the crust, in a large bowl, combine flours, brown sugar, salt and olive oil until dough comes together. Transfer dough to the baking pan and press into the pan to form an even layer. Bake for 15–20 minutes or until crust is slightly browned and firm. Remove from oven and allow to cool slightly before adding the filling.Meanwhile, prepare the filling. In a medium saucepan over medium heat, combine coconut oil, maple syrup, and brown sugar. Whisk the mixture until sugar dissolves. Keep over the heat and bring the mix to a boil. Boil for 1 minute, whisking the whole time. Remove from the heat and transfer to a large glass bowl.Allow the mixture to cool in the glass bowl slightly then add the coconut milk, pecans and chocolate chips. Once the crust has cooled, add the filling to the crust and spread evenly over the crust.Bake for 20–25 minutes. Remove from the oven and cool completely before slicing and serving.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Espresso Chip Biscotti
2-3/4 cups Unbleached All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
3/4 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1 Tablespoon Espresso Powder
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
3 Eggs
1 cup Sugar
1 cup Semisweet Chocolate Chips

Move oven racks to top and bottom 1/3 of the oven. Line 2 cookie sheets with parchment. Preheat oven to 325ºF.Stir flour, baking powder, and salt together. Set aside.Stir espresso powder and vanilla together. With an electric mixer, beat eggs, sugar, and espresso mixture for several minutes until thickened. On low speed, mix in flour. Once combined, stir in chocolate chips.With wet hands, form dough into 2 logs, one on each sheet, about 4 inches wide and 3/4 inch tall. Bake for 25 minutes, rotating the pans halfway through.Remove the sheets from the oven and let rest for 10 minutes. Meanwhile, move one of the oven racks to the center.After 10 minutes, spray the logs with water. Use a serrated knife to slice the cookies straight up and down, about 3/4 inch wide.Place all of the cut cookies, standing up, on one cookie sheet. Bake for 25 minutes more. Remove from the oven and cool on a wire rack.Store cookies in a container at room temperature. They won’t go stale, but if they soften a bit, crisp them up by baking them for about 5 minutes at 300ºF.

4-Ingredient Strawberry Frozen Yogurt
4 cups Strawberries
2 Tablespoons Raw Honey, Melted
1/3 cups Greek God's Traditional Plain Greek Yogurt
1 teaspoon Freshly Squeezed Lemon Juice

Wash strawberries and remove the stems. Slice in half. Lay strawberries out evenly over a sheet of parchment paper and place into the freezer overnight or for at least 4–5 hours.Add frozen strawberries, honey, yogurt, and lemon juice to a food processor. Process until creamy, about 5 minutes. You many need to scrape down the sides. If you find the strawberries are not fully blending, you can remove half and blend in batches and/or add a little water to help it along.Test for sweetness, and add additional honey as needed. Serve immediately or transfer to an airtight container and freeze for 2–3 hours for harder consistency.

Lemon Cream Pie
FOR THE EARL GREY SHORTBREAD CRUST:
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2 Tablespoons Earl Grey Tea Leaves
2 sticks Unsalted Butter, Softened
1/2 cups Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE LEMON CREAM PIE FILLING:
2 cups Whipping Cream
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened
2/3 cups Granulated Sugar
1 Tablespoon Lemon Zest
1/4 cups Lemon Juice
10 slices Lemon, For Garnish

To prepare crust, sift flour and salt in a large bowl. Mix in tea leaves. Set aside.Cream butter and powdered sugar in a bowl of a standing mixer until light and fluffy. Beat in vanilla. Reduce the speed to low and beat in the flour mixture until just incorporated.Gather dough and form a disk. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for about 30 minutes to chill.Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease a pie pan with a removable bottom.On a lightly floured surface, roll out dough to 1/4 inch thickness. Line prepared pan with rolled dough. Leave a tiny overhang of dough. Use a small kitchen knife to trim the excess and to score the tops of the tart.Bake crust for 15 to 20 minutes, or until edges are lightly browned. Remove from oven and let crust cool completely before removing from the pan.To prepare filling, in the bowl of a standing mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, beat cream until it holds firm peaks. Remove cream from bowl and keep cold in fridge.In the same bowl, using the paddle attachment, beat cream cheese until soft and creamy. Add sugar, lemon zest and juice. Continue beating until combined. Gently fold half of the whipped cream into cream cheese mixture until incorporated.Pour cream mixture in the cooled crust. Smooth the top with a spatula.Pipe remaining whipped cream along the edges of the pie. Garnish with lemon slices. Refrigerate pie until set, about 3 hours, or preferably overnight.

Buttermilk Pumpkin Doughnuts
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Kosher Salt
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1 Large Egg
1/4 cups Brown Sugar
2 Tablespoons Liquid Honey
2 Tablespoons Melted Unsalted Butter, Cooled
1/3 cups Pumpkin Puree
1/4 cups Buttermilk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE MAPLE BUTTERMILK GLAZE:
3/4 cups Confectioners Sugar
1 Tablespoon Maple Syrup
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/8 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
2 Tablespoons Buttermilk

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Spray a 6-mold donut pan with nonstick spray and set aside.In a large mixing bowl, combine flour, baking powder, salt, baking soda and cinnamon.In a medium mixing bowl, whisk together egg, brown sugar, honey, melted butter, pumpkin puree, buttermilk and vanilla until smooth. Pour wet ingredients into dry and mix until batter is smooth.Spoon batter into doughnut molds, filling to just below the top of each old. Bake for 16 to 20 minutes until lightly golden brown around the edges. The doughnuts are supposed to have a gooey center. Let cool in the pan for 5 minutes. Slide a thin spatula around the edges of the doughnuts to help loosen them out. Then place on a cooling rack and allow to cool for 5 to 10 minutes before glazing.For the glaze, in a large bowl, whisk together confectioners sugar, spices, and buttermilk.Dip doughnuts into glaze, and put them on a rack lined with parchment to catch any drips. Let glaze set before serving.

Fresh Pumpkin Ice Cream
1 cup Fresh Pumpkin Puree
1/3 cups Pure Maple Syrup
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
1/8 teaspoons Sea Salt
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1/8 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/8 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1/8 teaspoons Ground Allspice
1 can (13 1/2 Oz. Size) Full Fat Coconut Milk, Refrigerated
Candied Pecans, For Topping

Line a loaf pan with wax or parchment paper and then set aside.In a large mixing bowl, combine pumpkin puree, pure maple syrup, vanilla extract, sea salt, ground cinnamon, ground nutmeg, ground ginger, ground cloves, and ground allspice and stir well.In a separate large mixing bowl, add coconut milk and beat using a mixer until soft peaks form. Add whipped coconut milk to pumpkin mixture, folding it in gradually, and stir gently until smooth.Pour into the prepared loaf pan and then place in the freezer for 4–6 hours, or until solid enough to scoop. I like to sprinkle some candied pecans over the top with this delicious pumpkin ice cream all fall long.Note: While you could use organic canned pumpkin puree, I make my own puree which is super easy and awesome to have around during the fall. To make it, check out my TK recipe box for an easy recipe.

Chocolate Chip Pumpkin Cookies
3/4 cups Whole Wheat Flour
1/3 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Ground Ginger
1/4 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt
1 Tablespoon Cornstarch
1/2 cups Melted Coconut Oil
3/4 cups Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Pumpkin Puree
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
3/4 cups Dark Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Prepare 2 baking sheets and set aside.In a medium bowl, combine dry ingredients: flours, baking soda, baking powder, spices, salt, and corn starch. Whisk to combine and set aside.In a separate bowl, whisk together coconut oil and brown sugar until smooth. Add pumpkin puree and vanilla and whisk until just combined.Add dry ingredients to the pumpkin mixture. Be careful to not over-mix. Finally, add the chocolate chips.Scoop dough out in with a tablespoon onto baking sheets. Bake for 12 minutes, or until cookies are golden brown. Once baked, remove from oven, allow to cool on a wire rack and serve!

Pumpkin Spiced Granola
3 cups Whole Oats
1 cup Raw Almonds, Roughly Chopped
1 cup Raw Pecans, Roughly Chopped
3/4 cups Unsweetened Shredded Coconut
1-1/2 teaspoon Pumpkin Pie Spice
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/2 cups Maple Syrup
1/4 cups Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Canned Pumpkin
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1 cup Dried Cranberries

Preheat oven to 300ºF. Coat cookie sheet with nonstick cooking spray.Place rolled oats in large mixing bowl. Add chopped almonds, chopped pecans, coconut, pumpkin spice, and cinnamon. Mix until combined.In a separate bowl, combine maple syrup, brown sugar, pumpkin, and vanilla. Pour wet mixture into dry mixture. Stir all ingredients together until completely combined.Spread the mixture evenly into a thin layer on the cookie sheet. Bake for 30–35 minutes, until light golden brown, stirring once at the half way point. Remove from oven and let cools for at least 5 minutes.Transfer granola into a large bowl and mix in the dried cranberries. Once cool, store in an airtight container.

Blueberry White Chocolate Bars
1-1/2 cup Flour
3/4 cups Brown Sugar
3/4 cups Butter
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
2 cups Blueberries, Frozen (you Can Substitute Raspberries, Strawberries, Etc,)
1/4 cups Water
2 Tablespoons Cornstarch
3/4 cups White Chocolate Chips

Heat oven to 350ºF. Mix flour, sugar, butter, and baking soda together. Press into ungreased 9 x 13 inch baking pan. Bake 15 minutes.Mix blueberries, water and cornstarch in a 1-quart saucepan. Heat to boiling, stirring constantly. Boil and stir 1 minute. Cool for 5 minutes.Sprinkle white chocolate chips over crust. Spoon fruit mixture over white chocolate chips. Return to oven and bake 20 minutes longer.Let cool and cut into bars.

Easy Homemade Apple Pie
500 grams Apples
100 grams Brown Sugar
2 pieces (190g Size) Shortcrust Pastry
1 Small Egg, Beaten With 1 Tablespoon Water, For Egg Wash

Wash, core and dice apples. Place them in a bowl with sugar. Mix until all the pieces are coated with sugar.Divide pastry in Take one piece and roll it out thin. Transfer to a cake or sandwich tin lined with baking paper with sides and rim greased with butter. Press pastry down and up the sides. If your pastry doesn’t cover the sides and rim, simply take some more and fill the gaps.Pierce the bottom with a fork. Bake in a preheated oven at 180ºC (355ºF) for 10 minutes.Meanwhile, roll out the other piece of pastry. Make sure it is wide enough to cover the cake tin. Once the crust is pre-baked, take it out and fill it with apples mixed with sugar. Brush the rim of the pastry with egg wash. Now it’s time to cover it with raw pastry. Press down the pastry to seal the edges so the juices won’t come out. Brush with egg wash. Finally, make a cross/star in the middle and pierce the pastry several times.Bake in the oven at 180ºC (355ºF) for 40–45 minutes. Enjoy while warm!

Fanta Cake
4 whole Eggs
2 cups Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1 cup Canola Or Vegetable Oil
3 cups Flour
1-1/2 cup Fanta Orange Soda
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Soda

Preheat oven to 375°F. Butter and flour two 9-inch round cake pans.In a large stand mixer bowl, on medium-high speed, beat eggs, sugar, vanilla and oil until pale yellow and fluffy. Add flour and Fanta to the batter. Mix for another minute. Stir in baking soda, beat until incorporated.Bake at 375°F for 10 minutes. Reduce oven heat to 350°F and bake for another 18–25 minutes.If desired, frost with cream cheese frosting.Recipe adapted from Food.com.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Caramel Apples
1 cup Unsalted Butter
2 cups Packed Brown Sugar
3/4 cups White Granulated Sugar
1 cup Maple Syrup (or Light Corn Syrup)
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
8 Medium Apples, Stems Removed (I Recommend Granny Smith Apples)
8 Hard Lollipop Sticks Or Popsicle Sticks
FOR TOPPING (optional):
1 cup Milk Chocolate Chips
Crushed Walnuts
1 cup White Chocolate Chips
Food Colouring

In a medium saucepan, melt butter over medium-low heat. Whisk in sugars, syrup, condensed milk and vanilla. Stir regularly and cook until mixture beings to boil.Increase heat to medium heat and cook caramel for about 15 minutes, stirring constantly but slowly, until the caramel thickens and temperature on a candy thermometer reads 235°F. You can also test the caramel to see if it forms a “soft ball”. This means that if you drop the caramel into cold water and then remove it from the water and roll into a ball, the caramel should keep its shape.Remove saucepan from the heat. Let the caramel cool for a few minutes.Wash and dry the apples and insert sticks. Dip the apples into the hot caramel and twirl to fully coat and to let any excess drip off. Place onto greased parchment paper (or greased aluminum foil) and let caramel set for 15 minutes.The caramel may have pooled on the foil. Lift the apple and using your hand, shape the pooled caramel around the apple. Place apples back on parchment paper and leave it for another 30 minutes to allow it to fully set.Once fully set, you can start decorating your apples!To decorate the apples (optional): Melt the milk chocolate. Dip the caramel apples into the chocolate. Sprinkle on some crushed walnuts. Set aside to cool.Repeat with the white chocolate. If you want different colours, add food colouring. Note that if you are using liquid food colouring, you may need to add some oil to regain a smooth consistency.Using a piping bag and round tip, drizzle some white chocolate on top. Set aside to let toppings harden fully.

Bourbon Pecan Pie
FOR THE DOUGH:
1-1/4 cup All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 stick Cold Butter Cubed
1/4 cups Cold Water, Or More As Needed
FOR THE FILLING:
6 Tablespoons Butter
1 cup Dark Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Honey
1/2 cups Molasses
1 pinch Salt
2 cups Whole Pecans
1 teaspoon Apple Cider Vinegar
1 Tablespoon Bourbon
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
3 whole Eggs

Begin by making the dough. In the bowl of a food processor, add flour, salt and sugar. Pulse to combine. Add butter and pulse the mixture until it resembles a meal. Pour the mixture into a large bowl and add 1/4 cup cold water. Combine with your hands or a rubber spatula. If necessary, add an additional tablespoon of cold water.Once the dough forms a small ball, wrap it in plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 1 hour. Once the dough has chilled, roll it out into a 12-inch circle. Transfer the dough to a 9-inch pie dish and trim the dough around the rim as necessary. Place the crust in the freezer for 20 minutes.Meanwhile, preheat oven to 400ºF. Once the crust is frozen, line with plastic wrap or foil and fill with pie weights. Bake on a baking sheet for 20 minutes. Remove the crust from the oven and allow to cool before adding the filling.Reduce temperature of the oven to 350ºF. In a small saucepan, combine butter, brown sugar, honey, molasses and salt. Bring the mixture to a simmer and cook for 2 minutes, stirring the whole time.Remove the mixture from the heat and pour it in to a separate bowl to allow to cool slightly. Add pecans, apple cider vinegar, bourbon and vanilla. Let the mixture cool for about 10 minutes before adding in the eggs, one at a time. Stir after each egg is added and then pour the mix into the pie crust.Bake for 45 minutes, until the edges of the pie are set but the center is still slightly jiggly. Serve warm!

Victoria Sponge Cake with Balsamic Strawberries
FOR THE CAKE:
4 Large Eggs
1 cup White Sugar
1 cup Cake Flour, Sifted
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 cup Unsalted Butter, Softened
Fresh Strawberries, For Topping
Icing Sugar, For Dusting
FOR THE BALSAMIC REDUCTION (optional):
1-3/4 pounds, 3-3/4 ounces, weight Strawberries, Hulled And Halved
2 teaspoons Balsamic Vinegar
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice
2 Tablespoons White Sugar
FOR THE CHANTILLY CREAM:
2 Tablespoons White Sugar
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
1 cup Whipping Cream

For the cake: Preheat oven to 350ºF. Butter and line two 8-inch circular baking tins with parchment paper.Break eggs into a large mixing bowl. Add sugar, cake flour, baking powder and softened butter. Mix until combined, making sure not to over-mix. The finished mixture should have a “soft dropping” consistency—that is, you should be able to scoop it, but it should still fall off a spoon easily.Divide mixture evenly between baking tins. Smooth the surface, favouring the outsides slightly (as the centres tend to rise more). Place tins on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for about 25 minutes. The cakes should be golden-brown, pulling away from the edges of the tins, and cooked through.Remove them from the oven and set aside to cool in their tins for 5 minutes. Run a palette knife around the inside edge of the tin and gently turn the cakes out onto a cooling rack. Allow to cool completely.For the balsamic strawberry reduction: If you want to skip this step, you can use a store bought strawberry jam. But make it a good one!Mix strawberries, balsamic vinegar, lemon juice, and sugar. Reduce the mixture over a low heat, stirring occasionally. Don’t stir too often, you don’t want the strawberries to breakdown and turn into mush. Reduce until desired taste and consistency (for me, this means the mixture reduces to just a little more than half it’s original volume). If your reduction becomes too tart, add a little sugar and/or water to fix.For the Chantilly cream: “Chantilly” is fancy French-speak for a sweetened whipped cream. Don’t let it daunt you. All you have to do is vigorously whip sugar, vanilla extract, and whipping cream until soft peaks are formed.To assemble, place one cake upside down and spread the Chantilly cream, and then the balsamic strawberry reduction. Top with the second cake, top-side up. Spread Chantilly cream on top, and garnish using fresh strawberries and powdered sugar.

Slow Cooker Apple Cinnamon Dump Cake
6 Medium Apples, Peeled, Cored And Sliced (I Used Gala Apples)
3 Tablespoons White Sugar
2 Tablespoons Brown Sugar
4 teaspoons Cinnamon, Divided
1 box (16 1/2 Oz. Size) French Vanilla Cake Mix
1/2 cups Melted Unsalted Butter

Grease slow cooker with nonstick cooking spray or line with a slow cooker liner. Placed sliced apples in bottom of slow cooker.In a small bowl, combine white sugar, brown sugar, and 2 teaspoons cinnamon. Sprinkle mixture over apples. Lightly toss to coat.In a medium bowl, combine cake mix and remaining 2 teaspoons of cinnamon. Add melted butter and mix until crumbly. Sprinkle cake mixture evenly over apples.Cook on high for 2–3 hours, or on low for 4–6 hours, until edges are set. Center will be slightly wet.Serve immediately with vanilla ice cream or whipped cream, if desired. Enjoy!

Mochaccino Crinkle Cookies
3/4 cups Butter, Room Temperature
1 cup Brown Sugar
1 whole Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Hot Water
1/2 cups Plain Greek Yogurt
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 Tablespoon Espresso Powder
1/4 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Cream butter and brown sugar together until light and fluffy. Add egg and vanilla. Mix well. With the mixer on low, add hot water then the Greek yogurt, scraping down the sides of the bowl as necessary. Add flour, espresso powder, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt. Mix until well combined.Put granulated sugar into a small bowl and set it aside. Gently roll the dough into 1-inch balls and roll each ball in the granulated sugar to coat. To make more uniform-sized cookies, I like to use a small 1-ounce ice-cream-style scoop. Place sugar-coated balls on a parchment-lined baking sheet and bake for 10 to 12 minutes. Remove from the oven and place the baking sheet on a wire rack to cool.Freezes well.

Matcha Chiffon Cake
FOR THE MATCHA CHIFFON CAKE:
2/3 cups Cake Flour
1 Tablespoon Matcha Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
3 whole Large Eggs, Separated
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar, Divided
3 Tablespoons Canola Oil
4 Tablespoons Water
FOR THE WHIPPED CREAM:
1-1/2 cup Whipping Cream
1 Tablespoon Powdered Sugar
FOR THE CHOCOLATE GANACHE:
50 Tablespoons Dark Chocolate, Cut Into Chunks
2 Tablespoons Whipping Cream
12 pieces Fresh Strawberries

Preheat oven to 325ºF.Sift flour, matcha powder and baking powder. Set aside.Use an electric hand mixer to beat egg whites and 2 tablespoons sugar until stiff peaks form.In another bowl, beat egg yolks and remaining sugar until color is lightened. Add oil and water, continue beating until thoroughly combined. Fold in flour mixture until combined.Gently fold in 1/3 of the egg whites until incorporated into the green tea batter. Then fold in the remaining egg whites until no whites remain.Pour the batter into the ungreased bundt pan and spread evenly. Bake for 25–30 minutes, or until springy to touch. Turn the cake upside down on a plate when it’s hot. Let it cool completely. Use a thin offset spatula to run around the side of the cake to loose it.To prepare the whipped cream, beat the cream until soft peaks form. Add powdered sugar and continue beating until firm. Use an offset spatula to spread whipped cream all over the cake. Chill the cake in refrigerator.To prepare ganache, place chocolate and heavy cream in a medium heatproof bowl over a pot of simmering water. Stir the mixture using a wooden spoon until melted and smooth, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat and let cool slightly. Spoon ganache over the top of the cakes. Gently push the ganache to the sides to create dripping effect.Garnish with strawberries.

Peanut Butter Candy Popcorn
8 cups Popped Popcorn
1/2 cups Honey
1/3 cups White Sugar
1/2 cups Creamy Peanut Butter
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1/2 cups Butterfinger Bits (found In The Baking Aisle)
10 Peanut Butter Snickers Fun Size Squared, Chopped
1 cup Peanut Butter M&Ms;
1 cup Crispy M&Ms;
1/2 cups Candy Corn

Add popcorn to a large bowl and set aside.In a small saucepan, add honey and sugar. Bring to a boil, then reduce heat and simmer for about 2–3 minutes. Remove from heat and then add peanut butter and vanilla. Stir to combine.Immediately pour peanut butter mixture over popcorn and lightly toss to ensure popcorn is completely covered. Set aside and let cool for 10 minutes. Add candies and stir.Serve immediately or store in an airtight container until ready to serve. Enjoy!

Irish Barmbrack Tea Cake
250 grams Raisins
300 milliliters Cold Strong Tea
300 grams Plain Flour
150 grams Brown Sugar
4 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 Medium Egg
1 teaspoon Cinnamon

Throw raisins in a bowl and pour tea over. Place the bowl in the fridge and let raisins soak overnight.The following day, preheat oven to 180ºC (356ºF).Combine all the ingredients in a mixing bowl including the raisins and tea. Some raisins may absorb more liquid than others so you might end needing to add more tea. To be ready, have some extra cold tea ready on hand.Line a loaf tin with baking paper and pour the mixture over. Transfer to the oven and bake for 1 hour or until baked throughout.Enjoy with butter and/or jam as well as a cup of your favorite tea or coffee!

Homemade Lemon Curd
5 Medium Eggs
90 milliliters Lemon Juice, Freshly Squeezed
80 grams Caster Sugar
100 grams Unsalted Butter

In a medium mixing bowl, whisk eggs, freshly squeezed lemon juice and sugar until combined.Place the bowl over a pot of simmering water. Throw in butter and whisk constantly until it has thickened. This will take about 10 minutes (on low-medium heat).Cover the surface of the curd with cling film, let it cool down a bit before transferring to the fridge. Once chilled completely, pour/spoon into a glass jar and cover with a lid. Keep in the fridge.Note: The curd will continue to thicken in the fridge, so once it has yogurt-like consistency remove it from the heat.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Spiced Marshmallows
1-1/2 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/4 teaspoons Allspice
1/4 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/8 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1 cup Powdered Sugar, Or As Needed, Divided
3-1/2 envelopes (1/4 Oz. Size) Unflavored Gelatin
1 cup Cold Water, Divided
2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups Light Corn Syrup
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2 Large Egg Whites
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract

In a small bowl, combine spices and set aside.Oil bottom and sides of a 9×13 inch rectangular metal baking pan. Dust bottom and sides with some powdered sugar (make sure it’s well-coated!).In the bowl of a stand mixer (or in a large mixing bowl), sprinkle gelatin over 1/2 cup cold water. Let stand to soften.In a 3-quart heavy saucepan, cook granulated sugar, corn syrup, remaining 1/2 cup cold water, and salt over low heat (I actually cooked it over medium-low), stirring with a spoon, until sugar is dissolved. Increase heat to medium-high and boil mixture, without stirring, until a candy or digital thermometer registers 240°F, about 12 minutes. (If you do not have a thermometer, I suggest using the ball test—see note below.)Remove pan from heat and pour sugar mixture over gelatin mixture. Stir until gelatin is dissolved.With a stand (or handheld) mixer, beat mixture on high speed until it is white, thick, and nearly tripled in volume, about 6 minutes (if using a hand mixer, about 10 minutes).In a separate medium-sized bowl and using clean beaters (I used my handheld with the little whisk attachment), beat egg whites until they just hold stiff peaks. Beat the egg whites, vanilla, and spices into sugar and gelatin mixture until just combined, making sure the spices have been thoroughly mixed in.Pour mixture into baking pan and sift 1/4 cup powdered sugar evenly over the top. Chill in refrigerator, uncovered, for about 3 hours or until firm, and up to 1 day.Once firm, run a thin knife around edges of pan and invert onto a large cutting board. Lifting up one corner of the pan, use your fingers to loosen and ease onto cutting board. Using a large knife, cut into roughly 1-inch cubes (or, to be fun, you can cut out small shapes).Sift remaining powdered sugar into the baking pan, and roll marshmallows through it, making sure all sides are covered. Shake off excess sugar and store in an airtight container for up to 1 week (or plunk some directly into a steaming cup of hot chocolate).Notes: If you do not have a candy thermometer, you can tell if it is at the right temperature by dropping some of the sugar mixture into cold water. If it is at the desired temperature (240°F), it will form thick threads, and when rolled between your fingers, will form a ball. The ball should be soft and easily flattened when pressed.

Nut-Filled Finikia (Greek Honey Cookies)
1/2 pounds Butter
1 whole Egg Yolk
1/2 cups Milk
3 cups Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
FOR THE FILLING:
1 cup Chopped Walnuts
2 Tablespoons Sugar
1 Tablespoon Cinnamon
FOR THE SYRUP:
1-1/2 cup Water
1 cup Sugar
2/3 cups Honey
1/3 cups Lemon Juice
FOR ROLLING THE COOKIES:
1-1/2 cup Chopped Walnuts

Melt butter. Add egg yolk and milk. Stir. Sift flour with baking powder and add a little at a time to the milk mixture. Knead into a firm ball.Prepare the filling. Mix chopped nuts, sugar and cinnamon. Take a small amount of dough, about a 1-inch ball, and flatten to a 2 to 2 1/2 inch round. Place 1 teaspoon of the nut filling in the center. Fold over and seal well.Bake at 350ºF for 30 minutes.While the cookies are baking, prepare the syrup. Combine water, sugar, honey and lemon juice together in a medium-sized saucepan. Whisk together and let boil over medium high heat for about 10–15 minutes, stirring frequently.Dip the baked finikia into the hot syrup and then roll in the remaining nuts.Makes 36 cookies.

Salted Maple Pecans
1 cup Pecans, Whole Or Pieces
1/4 cups 100% Pure Maple Syrup
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt

Preheat a nonstick pan over medium heat. Add pecans, maple syrup, and vanilla to pan. Stirring constantly, cook for 3–5 minutes or until syrup has caramelized. There should be no liquid left in the pan.Scatter the pecans evenly onto a sheet of parchment paper. Working quickly and using a couple forks, spread the pecans so they don’t clump together as they harden. Sprinkle with sea salt.These harden within about 30 minutes, but it’s best to let them cool for a couple hours before storing them in an airtight container. When not kept in an airtight container, they can get a little sweaty. They can be kept at room temperature for several weeks.

Lemon Curd Thumbprint Cookies
60 grams Caster Sugar
110 grams Unsalted Butter, At Room Temperature
1 Egg, At Room Temperature
A Pinch Of Salt
1/4 teaspoons Almond Flavoring (optional)
240 grams Plain Flour
5 Tablespoons Caster Sugar For Coating (optional)
20 Tablespoons Lemon Curd

Beat sugar and butter until creamy. Add egg and mix until well-combined. Add salt and almond flavoring (if using) and mix with a spatula.Now sift in the flour. Mix with a spatula for a minute or so. Form dough using your hand. It will feel soft at the beginning but will come together while kneading. Wrap in cling film and chill in the fridge for 30 minutes.When dough is chilled, take it out and form into small balls. You should get about 20 balls. Cover each one in caster sugar (if using) and place them onto a baking tray lined with baking paper.Use a measuring spoon (or your thumb) to press each ball down to make dents for the lemon curd. Fill each one with 1/2 – 1 teaspoon lemon curd.Bake in preheated oven at 180ºC (356ºF) for 10–13 minutes or until the bottoms of the cookies are nice golden brown. Once baked, transfer onto a wire rack and let cool.Keep in an airtight container.Makes 20 cookies.

Apple Cheddar Bread Pudding Pie
FOR THE BREAD PUDDING CRUST:
1-1/2 cup Almond Milk
6 whole Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 loaf Cinnamon Swirl Bread, 16 Ounces
FOR THE FILLING:
4 whole Apples, Cored And Thinly Sliced
2 Tablespoons Dark Brown Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/2 cups Freshly Grated Cheddar Cheese
Whipped Cream Or Ice Cream For Topping
Caramel Syrup, For Topping

First, put together the bread pudding. Combine the milk, eggs, vanilla and cinnamon together in a large mixing bowl and whisk it all together until it is a smooth custard. Stir the cubed cinnamon swirl bread into it so that the bread gets coated in it. Set it aside to soak for 20 minutes. Then start on the filling. Stir the apple slices, brown sugar and cinnamon together in another bowl and let that sit for 15 minutes. The apples will start to soften and absorb the flavor.While that all sits, preheat oven to 350ºF and liberally spray a 9-inch springform cake pan with cooking spray. Spread the bread pudding mixture into an even layer in the bottom of the pan, then sprinkle the cheddar cheese on top of the bread. Spread the apple mixture evenly on top of the cheese, then bake the pie for 45–50 minutes. The apples should be super tender and the bread pudding should be completely set. Let it cool and set for 20 minutes, then release it from the springform pan. Slice and serve with ice cream, whipped cream, and/or caramel sauce on top!

Mini No-Bake Cheesecake Recipe
1-1/2 cup Raw Cashews
1 cup Raw Pecans
1 cup Pitted Dates, Packed
1/8 teaspoons Sea Salt
1/3 cups Freshly Squeezed Lemon Juice (approx. 2 Lemons)
1/3 cups Coconut Oil, Melted
2/3 cups Full Fat Coconut Milk, Refrigerated
1/3 cups Pure Maple Syrup
FOR THE SAUCE OR TOPPING (OPTIONAL):
1/2 cups Fresh Strawberries, Diced
1 teaspoon Lemon Juice
1 Tablespoon Coconut Sugar
3 Tablespoons Water

First, cover the raw cashews with boiling hot water and let them soak for 1 hour. It’s necessary to soak them to soften them.In a food processor or heavy duty blender, add raw pecans and process into an even meal consistency. Remove from the food processor and set aside.Add the pitted dates and sea salt into the same food processor; no need to clean out the remaining pecan particles. Process until a small ball forms. Add the processed pecans back into the food processor and blend until the mixture resembles a loose dough.Cut thin strips of parchment paper and lay into each slot in a muffin tin. (Trust me, this will be super useful when it’s time to remove the cheesecakes because it will act as a handle.)Scoop the pecan-date mixture evenly into the muffin tins. Carefully pack it down evenly using your fingers. This will serve as the crust.To make the filling, drain soaked cashews and add them into a blender, followed by lemon juice, melted coconut oil, chilled coconut milk (just scoop the top of the hardened coconut milk from the top of the can, and leave the clear liquid underneath), and pure maple syrup. Blend together until very smooth. The smoother this mixture is, the creamier your cheesecake will be. Now, pour the filling evenly into each muffin tin, filling all the way up.To make the optional strawberry sauce/topping, add fresh strawberries, lemon juice, coconut sugar, and water into a sauce pan and cook over medium-high heat until strawberries are softened and liquid is released. Add strawberries to a blender to create a puree. We want this very loose and smooth to make the swirl.To make the swirls, place two very small drops on top of the cups at opposite ends. Then, using a toothpick or knife, make a circle to connect the two dots to make a swirl pattern. It takes a little bit of practice and tastes delicious no matter how it looks.Place the muffin tin into the freezer and freeze for 1–2 hours to allow the mixture to set. When you’re ready to eat, just pull up on the parchment paper to remove the cheesecake, then discard the parchment paper. You may need to allow it to set at room temperature for 5 minutes to thaw.

Cranberry Almond Cheesecake Bars
FOR THE CRANBERRY SAUCE:
1 cup Fresh Cranberries
6 Tablespoons Dark Brown Sugar
1/4 cups Water
FOR THE CRUST:
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1/4 cups Dark Brown Sugar
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cups Melted Butter
FOR THE CHEESECAKE FILLING:
2 blocks (8 Oz. Size) Cream Cheese, Room Temperature
3/4 cups Cane Sugar
2 Large Eggs, Room Temperature
3/4 teaspoons Almond Extract
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/4 cups Full-fat Sour Cream

For the cranberry sauce: In a small saucepan, heat cranberries, sugar and water over high heat. Bring to a boil then reduce heat to medium and continue to cook, uncovered, stirring often, until berries have burst and sauce thickens, about 10 minutes. Set aside to cool down.For the crust: Preheat oven to 375ºF.In a medium-sized bowl, combine flour, sugar and salt. Add melted butter and stir until completely incorporated.Grease and line an 8×8 in baking pan with parchment paper and lightly press the lour mixture in to the pan, making sure it is all evenly distributed. Bake for 10 minutes then reduce the heat to 325ºF.For the filling: Meanwhile, in the bowl of your stand mixer, cream together cream cheese and sugar then scrape the bowl down. Add eggs, almond extract and vanilla and beat until light and creamy. Add sour cream and beat until well combined, scraping the bowl as necessary.When crust is done, pour cheesecake filling in to the pan. Dot cranberry sauce all over the top then gently swirl around with a knife.Bake cheesecake for 40–50 minutes, or until edges are set and middle is only slightly jiggly. Allow to cool completely in the pan.Wrap the cheesecake (in the pan) in plastic wrap and place in the fridge to completely set for a minimum of 3 hours, preferably overnight. Serve cold.

Apple Hand Pies with Maple Glaze
4 cups Apples (Granny Smith Work Well), Peeled And Cut Into Small Cubes
2 teaspoons Lemon Juice
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Brown Sugar, Firmly Packed
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/8 teaspoons Nutmeg
2 Sheets Puff Pastry, Thawed
1 Egg
1 dash Heavy Cream
FOR THE GLAZE:
3/4 cups Powdered Sugar
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup
1 Tablespoon Milk
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 Pinch Ground Cloves

In a medium or large bowl, toss apples with lemon juice.In a small bowl, combine granulated sugar, brown sugar, ground cinnamon, and nutmeg. Spoon mixture over apples and toss gently to coat.Place apple mixture in a frying pan over medium-high heat, covered, for about 10 minutes, stirring occasionally until juices begin to bubble. Remove from heat and set aside.Preheat oven to 400°F and line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper.Working on a floured surface, roll one puff pastry sheet to about 15 1/2 inches in length and 9 1/2 inches wide. Divide and cut into three 5-inch wide rectangles. Divide and cut each rectangle in half. Finally, divide and cut each rectangle half in half again.Set halves aside in pairs of two (6 pairs per sheet). Repeat with second pastry sheet.For each pair of puff pastry: On one half, spoon about 1 tablespoon of filling, leaving a little bit of room around the edges. Place second half on top and lightly press around the edges to seal.Then, take a fork and press around the edges to seal completely. Repeat with remaining pastry pairs. In the end, you should have 12 hand pies.Divide pies between baking sheets, placing about 2 inches apart.In a small bowl, whisk together egg with a small splash of heavy (or whipping) cream and brush over tops of pies. Bake for 12–14 minutes, or until golden brown on top. Remove from oven and allow to cool. While pies are cooling, make glaze.For the glaze: Sift powdered sugar into small bowl. Add remaining ingredients and whisk to combine.When pies are cool enough to handle, pour some glaze onto a dish (I used a medium-sized plate). Dip each pie top into glaze, making sure tops are completely covered. Refill dish with glaze as needed until all pies have been covered.Let pies sit for a few minutes to allow glaze to set. Serve warm.

Sparkling Wine Soaked Strawberry Shortcake
2 sticks Unsalted Butter
3 Large Eggs
3 Egg Yolks
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1-3/4 cup Cake Flour
FOR THE TOPPING:
1 cup Sparkling Wine
1/4 cups Sugar
2 pints Fresh Strawberries
1 pint Heavy Cream
Mint Leaves

In a large mixing bowl, cut butter up into pieces and allow to sit at room temperature for 20 minutes.In a separate bowl, mix eggs, yolks and vanilla until well-combined.Preheat oven to 325ºF and make sure rack is placed in middle of oven. Grease and flour a 9×5 loaf pan.Using a mixer set to high, beat butter until creamy, about 2–3 minutes. Continue mixing on medium while slowly adding sugar and salt and mix for 1 minute. Increase speed to high again and continue to mix until light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Reduce speed to medium again and slowly add egg mixture until fully incorporated. Mix on high for 3 minutes,Sift flour over mixture in 3 to 4 additions while folding flour into batter, using a spatula until all flour is folded in. Pour mix into prepared pan and smooth top.Bake until golden brown and toothpick comes out clean, about 1 hour and 10 minutes. Remove from oven and allow to cool on wire rack for 15 minutes before removing from pan. Allow to cool completely for at least 1 hour and 30 minutes.For the topping: In a medium-sized bowl, add sparkling wine and sugar and mix until all sugar has dissolved. Add strawberries and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes.In a medium bowl, add heavy cream and mix with hand mixer for 4–6 minutes until cream forms medium peaks.To serve, slice cake and lay on plate. Spoon 2 tablespoons of juice from strawberry mixture onto each slice of cake and allow the cake to absorb liquid. Top with sliced strawberries and whipped cream and garnish with mint leaves.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Halloween Pumpkin Cookies
2 cups Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 pinch Salt
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/2 teaspoons Ginger
1/2 teaspoons Clove
1 cup Pumpkin Puree
3 Tablespoons Maple Syrup

Preheat oven to 180°C (350°F).Take a large mixing bowl and add flour, baking powder, salt and the spices. Mix everything well. Then add pumpkin and sweetener of choice. Mix until well-combined.Put a baking sheet on your baking tray and put spoonfuls of the mixture onto the tray. Bake 12–15 minutes or until golden and hard on the outside.

Apple Sugar Cinnamon Cake
1 cup Brown Sugar
1/3 cups Canola Oil
1 Egg
1 cup Buttermilk
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 cup Chopped Apples
1 Tablespoon Butter, Plus More For Greasing Baking Dish
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Cinnamon

Preheat oven to 160ºC (325ºF). I used a ceramic casserole form 22×33 cm (9×13 inch), which I placed in the cold oven before turning it on. I find this to be good when baking in ceramic forms, otherwise I find that the dish needs a longer baking time than it would need in another kind of dish. You will not need to do this if using a regular cake pan.With an electric mixer, whisk brown sugar, oil, egg and buttermilk. Add baking soda and vanilla extract. Mix in flour and then chopped apples.Melt butter in a small pan. Remove from heat and add granulated sugar and cinnamon. Stir to mix.Take the casserole form out of the oven (if you decided to use a ceramic dish as well). Place a small knob of butter into it and move it around the dish with a brush to grease the form all over. Pour the batter into the dish. Top with the butter-sugar-cinnamon mixture. Place back in the oven, but don’t forget the dish is already hot (I forgot and burned my fingers).Bake for about 40–45 minutes or until deep golden brown. You can serve the cake warm or at room temperature.

Apple Oatmeal Cookies
1-1/2 cup Apples, Peeled And Finely Diced
1-1/2 cup Cane Sugar, Divided
1 cup Walnuts, Finely Chopped (I Use My Food Processor)
1/4 cups Water
1 cup Butter
2 whole Eggs
2 cups Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1/2 cups Milk
2 cups Quick Cooking Oatmeal

Heat oven to 375ºF.In a saucepan, combine apples, 1/2 cup cane sugar and nuts. Add water. Cook and stir over medium heat until mixture is thick and apples are tender, about 10–15 minutes.Cream butter and remaining 1 cup of cane sugar. Beat in eggs.Sift together flour, baking powder, cinnamon and cloves. Add alternately with milk to the creamed mixture. Stir in oatmeal.On a greased baking sheet, drop dough by the teaspoonful. Make depression in the center. Top with about 1/2 teaspoon apple filling.Bake at 375ºF for 10–12 minutes.

Homemade Apple Custard Tart
FOR THE BASE:
125 grams Plain Biscuit
75 grams Sugar
70 grams Butter, Melted
FOR THE FILLING:
2 whole Red And Green Apples
1/2 cups Sugar
1/2 cups Water
250 grams Custard Cream
1/2 cups Peanuts Toasted And Finely Chopped, For Garnish

Blend biscuits, sugar and melted butter in a food processor until you have fine crumbs. Place mixture in a 6-inch springform tin and press firmly into bottom and sides of tin. Refrigerate for about 45 minutes.Peel, core and thinly slice the apple. Place in a bowl and set aside.Add sugar and water into a heavy-bottomed pan and heat over low heat to 105ºC (220ºF). Use a candy thermometer. The sugar should dissolve and the mixture should thicken to syrup consistency. Add sugar syrup mixture to the apple slices and carefully fold to mix well, making sure apple slices are completely coated.Take the cooled base from the refrigerator and carefully pour the custard cream onto the base. Arrange sliced apples on top of the cream. Sprinkle lightly with the toasted peanuts.

Strawberry & Peach Smoothie Bowl
1 whole Ripe Peach, Pitted And Sliced
1 whole Frozen Banana
1 cup Fresh Strawberries, Halved
1/4 cups Rolled Oats, Uncooked
1/3 cups Unsweetened Almond Milk
2 teaspoons Raw Honey
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon

In a blender, add peach, frozen banana, fresh strawberries, uncooked rolled oats, unsweetened almond milk, raw honey, and ground cinnamon. (While you don’t have to have your banana frozen ahead of time, having it frozen will add more creaminess to your smoothie and will make it so you don’t need to add any ice, which can dilute the flavor.) Blend until smooth.Pour the smoothie into a bowl. I like to add sliced peach, strawberries, granola, and shredded coconut over the top, but you can use whatever you like. To keep the fruit from sinking, slice very thinly.

Aquafaba Meringues
1 can (15 Oz. Size) Garbanzo Beans, The Liquid Only, At Room Temperature
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract

Preheat oven to 200ºF. Prepare 2 sheet pans with a piece of parchment paper.Combine bean liquid in the bowl of a standing mixer with a whisk attachment. Whisk on high for about 6 minutes until soft peaks start to form. Slowly add sugar while continuing to whisk on high. You want to whisk until you have stiff peaks, another 4–5 minutes. Add the extract at the very end and whisk until it is well incorporated.Pipe or spoon the meringue onto the prepared sheet pans by the mounded spoonful. These will not spread, so don’t worry!Bake these for 1 ½ to 2 hours until lightly crisp. As cookies cool, they will get stiffer and will be slightly chewy on the inside.Let them cool and then store in a cool, dry place.

Spiced Oatmeal Cookies
1 cup Unsalted Butter, Softened
1-1/2 cup Light Brown Sugar, Firmly Packed
1/2 cups White Sugar
3 Large Eggs
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2-3/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/4 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
3 cups Quick Cooking Oats
1 cup Dried Cranberries
1 cup Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
1 cup Toffee Bits

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line two large baking pans with parchment paper. Set aside.In a large bowl, beat butter, brown sugar, and white sugar until smooth and creamy, about 3–4 minutes. Add eggs, one at a time, and beat until well-blended. Add vanilla and blend until smooth. Set aside.In a medium bowl, combine flour, baking soda, baking powder, salt, nutmeg, and cinnamon. Slowly add flour mixture to sugar mixture, beating until combined. Fold in oats, dried cranberries, chocolate chips, and toffee bits.Drop dough by 2 tablespoonfuls about 1 inch apart on prepared pans. Bake for 12–14 minutes, or until lightly browned.Let cool on pans for 5 minutes. Then, move to a wire rack to cool completely. Enjoy!

Homemade Vanilla Pudding
5 cups Whole Milk
1-1/3 cup Sugar, Divided
6 Tablespoons Cornstarch
4 whole Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla
2 Tablespoons Butter

In a large saucepan over medium heat, whisk together milk and 2/3 cup sugar. In a large mixing bowl, beat together remaining 2/3 cup sugar, cornstarch, and eggs until smooth.When milk is simmering, remove from heat and slowly add to egg mixture, whisking constantly. Pour all back into the saucepan and bring to a boil over low heat, whisking constantly, for 2–3 minutes until pudding is thick and smooth.Remove from heat; whisk in vanilla and butter. Let cool slightly and pour into individual containers for lunches.Note: I like to add a few pieces fresh fruit or frozen raspberries on top of pudding when packing into lunches.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Cookie Balls
4-1/2 cups Rolled Oats
1-1/2 cup Flax Seed Meal
1 cup Mini Chocolate Chips
2 cups Creamy Peanut Butter
1/2 cups Coconut Oil
1/2 cups Honey
1/2 cups Corn Syrup
2 teaspoons Vanilla

In a large bowl, stir together oats, flax seed meal, and mini chocolate chips. Add peanut butter, coconut oil, honey, corn syrup, and vanilla. Using a wooden spoon or spatula, stir until thoroughly combined. The mixture will be very thick!Shape the mixture into tablespoon-sized balls. I use a cookie scoop for portioning, then roll the balls by hand.Store in the refrigerator in an airtight container up to 1 month.

Strawberry Icebox Cheesecake
2-1/2 cups Strawberry Cheesecake Ice Cream, Slightly Softened
2 cups Frozen Strawberries, Defrosted Per Package Instructions (reserve Juice That Accumulates)
1/2 cups Strawberry Dessert Topping
8 ounces, weight Package Cream Cheese, Softened To Room Temperature
1 cup Powdered Sugar
1/4 cups Reserved Strawberry Juice From Defrosting The Frozen Strawberries
1/4 cups Strawberry Preserves
12 ounces, weight Cool Whip, Defrosted Per Package Instructions, Divided
Red Gel Food Coloring (Optional)
2 pints Fresh Strawberries, Rinsed And Dried

Clear space in your freezer to fit a loaf pan. Line a 9 x 5 loaf pan with plastic wrap so that the sides drape over, which will allow you to cover the icebox cheesecake; set aside.Add ice cream to mixing bowl and allow to soften for a few minutes. Stir with spoon and then add to plastic-lined loaf pan spreading edge-to-edge until smooth. Place in freezer and freeze 2 hours.Mix defrosted frozen strawberries with strawberry dessert topping, crushing big pieces of strawberry with spoon. Remove loaf pan from freezer and add defrosted strawberry mixture, spreading edge-to-edge. Return load pan to freezer for 2 hours.Add softened cream cheese and powdered sugar to mixing bowl. Beat on low with an electric mixer until combined. Add reserved strawberry juice (from frozen strawberries defrosting) and strawberry preserves to cream cheese mixture and beat on medium with an electric mixture until fluffy. Fold in 8 ounces of defrosted Cool Whip, by hand, into cream cheese mixture in mixing bowl; fold in with a spatula until thoroughly mixed with the cream cheese mixture.Add drops of red gel food coloring (optional) to mixture, folding in by hand, until desired pink color is achieved. Remove load pan from freezer and add cream cheese mixture over frozen strawberries, spreading edge-to-edge with spatula or spoon. Cover with plastic wrap (that is hanging over the edge of the pan) and return to the freezer for 2 hours or overnight.To serve, remove loaf pan from freezer. Unwrap plastic from icebox cheesecake. Invert onto platter, pulling on plastic wrap, if necessary. Remove all plastic wrap. Garnish with strawberries around entire edge of icebox cheesecake (reserve 3 largest strawberries for the top). Dollop top of Strawberry Icebox Cheesecake with remaining Cool Whip. Top with the 3 largest strawberries. Serve immediately.

Gluten-Free Blueberry Galette
2-1/2 Tablespoons Tablespoons Greek Yogurt Or Ricotta Cheese
1 Egg, Loosely Beaten
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
A Pinch Of Salt
3 Tablespoons Brown Sugar, Divided
2 Tablespoons Warm Water
1-1/2 cup Buckwheat Flour
2 cups Blueberries
2 cups Pitted Wild Plums Or Equivalent
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves

For the crust, combine Greek yogurt, loosely beaten egg, baking powder, salt, 1 tablespoon brown sugar and warm water. Gradually add buckwheat flour, until dough is soft and elastic. Cover it loosely with a kitchen towel and let rest for 20 minutes.For the filling, mix blueberries and pitted wild plums with remaining 2 tablespoons brown sugar, cinnamon and ground cloves.Divide the pastry into three balls and roll each into a circle on a flour-dusted surface with a rolling pin. The circles should be around 0.4 cm or 0.15 inch thick. Preheat oven to 190°C or 370°F. Put 1/3 of the filling in the middle of each circle and gently fold the pastry over the filling, leaving the middle opene.Line the baking tray with parchment paper and transfer the galettes. Cut 3 tin foil circles to cover the middles. Bake for 20 minutes or until golden-brown. Top with a scoop of blueberry cheesecake ice cream for an extra blueberry flavor. Enjoy!

Peach Pineapple Dump Cake with Walnuts
2 Tablespoons All-purpose Flour
20 ounces, weight Canned Crushed Pineapple
21 ounces, weight Canned Peach Pie Filling
1 box (about 18 Oz. Size) Classic Yellow Cake Mix
1/2 cups Water
1-1/2 cup Chopped Walnuts
1 stick Butter, Cut Into 16 Cubes
1/2 gallons Vanilla Ice Cream, To Serve

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Spray a 9 x 13 baking dish with nonstick cooking spray; sprinkle with 2 tablespoons flour to coat.Open cans and pour pineapple (juice and all) and peach pie filling into prepared baking dish. Swirl the fruit with a spoon to combine, but don’t over-mix. Pour dry cake mix evenly over top of fruit. Sprinkle water over top of cake mix. Scatter walnuts on top of cake mix, followed by cubes of butter, dotting them all over the dump cake.Set baking dish on a baking sheet (to prevent spills) and place in preheated oven. Bake for 1 hour and then check your cake; it should be golden brown and bubbly. If not, bake 10–15 minutes more. Remove from oven and serve warm topped with a scoop of vanilla ice cream.Note: Every oven is different so this could take longer than 1 hour to bake. The cake should be golden brown, with very little dry cake mix “patches” scattered about. The edges of your cake will be bubbly.

Mini Sour Cream Bundt Cakes
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Sour Cream Or Yogurt
1/4 cups Milk
1/2 cups Butter
1 cup Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla
2 whole Eggs
1 cup Jam, Caramel, Or Nutella, For Filling
2 cups Chocolate Chips, Crushed Candy, Or Dried Fruit, For Filling

Combine dry ingredients.Combine sour cream or yogurt and milk.In a mixer on high, cream butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Reduce speed to medium and beat in vanilla. Beat in eggs one at a time, scraping sides and bottom of bowl with a rubber spatula to make sure it’s completely mixed together.Reduce speed to low. Add 1/3 of the flour mixture. Add half of the sour cream mixture. When incorporated, add 1/2 of the remaining flour mixture. When mostly mixed in, add the rest of the sour cream mixture. When mostly mixed in, add remaining flour mixture. Scrape sides and bottom with a rubber spatula to make sure everything is mixed together.Spray pan with nonstick spray. If using 1/3 cup size pan, put a tablespoon of batter in the bottom of each cake hole. If filling with liquid ingredients like jam, spread in 1 tablespoon and then top with batter; if using dry ingredients like chips, use 2 tablespoons and then top with batter.Bake for 15 minutes or until a pick comes out with no batter on it. Cool 5 minutes in pan and then transfer to a rack to cool completely.Drizzle with glaze if desired or sprinkle with sugar. Or, if desired, sprinkle cakes with powdered sugar, cinnamon sugar, cocoa or drizzle with caramel, chocolate, powdered sugar glaze, etc.

Banana Chia Pudding
1 piece Ripe Banana, Mashed
3 Tablespoons White Chia Seeds
1/4 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/8 teaspoons Cinnamon
3/4 cups Plain Almond Milk
1 Tablespoon Pure Maple Syrup (for Additional Sweetness)
Sliced Bananas And/or Chopped Cashews

Add mashed banana to a small container (I like to use glass mason jars), followed by white chia seeds, vanilla extract, ground cinnamon, and almond milk. For a little added sweetness, you can also add in a little pure maple syrup. Stir to combine.Place in the refrigerator overnight, or for at least 5–6 hours, to allow the chia seeds to absorb the liquid and thicken. In an airtight container, this pudding will last in the fridge a good 4–5 days.When it’s ready to eat, I like to top it with some sliced banana and chopped cashews for a little crunch.

S’mores Pie
14 ounces, weight Milk Chocolate
3/4 cups Heavy Cream
1 whole 9 Inch Prepared Graham Cracker Crust
15 whole Marshmallows

Combine chocolate and heavy cream in a microwave-safe bowl and heat on high for 2 ½ minutes. Stir until chocolate is melted and you have a gorgeous ganache!Pour into a 9-inch prepared graham cracker crust. Cover with plastic wrap and park in the fridge for at least 4 hours or overnight.Cut marshmallows in half on the bias. Place the marshmallows cut side down on the chilled pie.Preheat broiler and pop in the oven for about 1 minute, rotating pan and watching closely so the marshmallows don’t burn. Let cool and cover with plastic wrap. Chill for another hour or two to let ganache set again.Slice and serve. This pie is so rich and delicious, a small slice will satisfy your sweet tooth.Recipe slightly adapted from Food Network Kitchen.

Banana Chocolate Chip Oat Cookies
3/4 cups Organic Unbleached All Purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, At Room Temperature
1 cup Coconut Sugar
1 Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 Banana, Mashed
1/4 cups Water
2 cups Quick Oats
1 cup Dark Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350° F and line a baking sheet with foil paper.Whisk flour, cinnamon, baking soda and salt in a medium bowl. Set aside.In a stand mixer, cream butter and sugar together on medium speed until creamy. Add egg, vanilla, and beat to combine. Mix in mashed banana and water, beating until just combined.Add oats and chocolate chips, and mix with a spatula. Chill dough in the refrigerator for 15 minutes.After 15 minutes, use a tablespoon or ice cream scoop and scoop dough balls on the baking sheet, placing them about 1 inch apart (they don’t spread). Bake until just golden on top, about 10 minutes. Cool on the baking sheet for 10 minutes, then transfer the cookies to rack to cool completely.

Dark Chocolate Cherry Energy Bites
1 cup Raw Almonds
1/2 cups Dried Cherries
1/2 cups Dark Chocolate Morsels
2 cups Dates, Pitted
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/8 teaspoons Sea Salt

Add almonds to a food processor and blend until chopped, but not all the way into a flour. Add dried cherries, dark chocolate morsels, pitted dates, ground cinnamon, and sea salt. Process until even in texture. (If you like chunks of chocolate or cherries, you can stop a little sooner before everything is evenly processed—it’s up to you.)Carefully grab a small handful and roll into about 1-inch balls. The mixture will stick to itself pretty easily. You should be able to make about 12 to 15 energy bites.Place the energy bites into the fridge for about 15 minutes to set. These energy balls will keep fresh in an airtight container for up to a week, or you could freeze for longer.

Greek Honey and Walnut Balls (Loukoumades)
4-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour, Plus 1 Tablespoon, Divided
1 teaspoon Salt
2-1/4 cups Warm Water, divided
1 Tablespoon Instant Dry Yeast
1 Tablespoon Honey, Plus 1 Cup For Drizzling
Vegetable Oil, For Frying
Ground Cinnamon, For Sprinkling
Coarsely Ground Walnuts, For Sprinkling

Combine 4 1/2 cups flour with salt in a large bowl. In 1/2 cups warm water, dissolve yeast, 1 tablespoon honey, and remaining 1 tablespoon flour.In the center of the flour, make a well and pour in yeast, honey, and flour mixture. Add remaining 1 3/4 cups water. Mix with a spatula until batter is loose and sticky. If batter is not loose, add more water to achieve it. Cover with plastic wrap and leave to rise for a couple of hours.Heat a pot filled about half full of the vegetable oil to 375°F (180°C).Shape loukoumades by oiling hands, taking a handful of batter and clenching your fist around it. Now squeeze out a knob of the batter between the fingers and drop it into the hot oil. Repeat with all the remaining batter.When the balls rise to the top, they are ready. Remove them with a slotted spoon and dry on paper towels. Drizzle with some honey. Top with cinnamon and walnuts.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Fresh Peach Frozen Yogurt
3 cups Fresh Peaches, Sliced And Pitted
2 teaspoons Raw Honey, Melted
2/3 cups Plain Greek Yogurt
1 teaspoon Lemon Juice

Place sliced and pitted peaches on a cookie sheet lined with parchment paper. Make sure peaches are separated and not touching each other or it will make them difficult to work with later. Place the peach slices into the freezer and freeze for at least 2–3 hours.Add frozen peaches to the food processor and process until they become evenly crumbly, but not pureed. Add raw honey, plain Greek yogurt, and freshly squeezed lemon juice into the food processor, and process again until a smooth, creamy consistency appears, about 2–4 minutes. You many need to scrape down the sides once or twice along the way. (If you don’t have a food processor, you could use a heavy duty kitchen blender.)Once everything is smooth, taste for sweetness, and add additional honey as needed. You can serve immediately or transfer to airtight container and freeze for a couple hours for a harder consistency.

Peach and Blueberry Coffee Cake
1 cup All Purpose Flower
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature
2/3 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Large Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/4 cups Sour Cream
1/4 cups Whole Milk
2 Large Peaches (diced)
1/3 cups Blueberries

Preheat oven to 350°F. Butter a 9-inch baking pan and set aside.In a large bowl, sift all dry ingredients: all-purpose flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Set aside.In another mixing bowl, using a spatula, mix together softened butter and granulated sugar until smooth. Add eggs and vanilla extract and whisk. Add sour cream and milk and whisk again.Add dry ingredients to the mixture. Using a spatula, fold ingredients together until well combined.Pour the batter in the baking pan and top with diced peaches and blueberries. Bake at 350°F for about 35–40 minutes or until a toothpick comes out clean. Remove the cake from the oven and let it cool off for about 10 minutes, then remove from baking pan and let it cool off completely on a wire rack.

Pumpkin Pie Layer Brownies
FOR THE BROWNIE LAYER:
16 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
4 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate, Chopped
1-1/2 cup Sugar
4 Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 cup Cocoa Powder
1-1/2 cup Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE PUMPKIN PIE LAYER:
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
15 ounces, weight Pumpkin Puree
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 Eggs
FOR THE GANACHE:
10 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate, Chopped
2/3 cups Cream

Preheat oven to 350°F. Line a 16 x 9 baking pan with parchment paper and lightly grease it.In a glass mixing bowl, melt butter and chocolate over a double boiler until smooth. Remove bowl from heat and stir in sugar. Add the eggs and vanilla and whisk until smooth.In a separate large mixing bowl, combine cocoa powder, flour, baking powder, and salt.Pour wet ingredients into dry and fold until just combined. Pour the batter into the prepared baking pan and bake 30 minutes.While brownies are baking, make the pumpkin pie layer. Combine all ingredients in a blender and blend until smooth. Alternatively, place all the ingredients in a mixing bowl and beat with an electric mixer until all ingredients are combined and smooth.After 30 minutes, remove brownie layer from oven and pour pumpkin pie layer over top. Immediately place back in oven and bake another 15 minutes. Remove brownies from oven and allow to cool completely.Make the ganache by placing the chopped chocolate in a mixing bowl. Heat the cream in a small heavy bottom pot. It doesn’t have to come to a boil, it just has to be really hot (be careful not to scorch the cream!). Once hot, pour the cream over chopped chocolate. Gently stir until chocolate melts and ganache becomes smooth and velvety. Allow to cool about 15 minutes so that ganache is spreadable.Pour ganache over cooled brownies and spread to cover.

Swiss Roll
FOR THE CAKE:
5-1/3 ounces, weight Egg Whites
2-1/8 ounces, weight Sugar
2-1/8 ounces, weight Egg Yolks
1-1/2 ounces, weight Cake Flour
1 pinch Salt
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2-1/8 ounces, weight Corn Oil
FOR THE FRUIT FILLING:
1-1/2 cup Chopped Strawberries
1/4 cups Sugar
1 Tablespoon Water
2 Tablespoons Apricot Jam
FOR THE WHIPPED CREAM FILLING:
1/2 cups Whipping Cream
4 Tablespoons Sugar
1 cup Nutella
8 ounces, weight Raspberries
FOR THE NUTELLA AND RASPBERRY FILLING:
1 cup Nutella
8 ounces, weight Raspberries

Cake recipe adapted from Kitchen Tigress.For the cake: Preheat oven to 375°F. Grease with oil or butter a 13×9 Swiss roll pan or baking tray of similar dimension. Line with parchment paper.Using a stand mixer fitted with whisk attachment, beat egg whites and add sugar while beating. Beat until stiff peaks form.Add yolks to whites in 2 batches, Whisk on low until evenly mixed.Sift half the flour into batter. Add salt. Mix on low speed until uniform. Sift remaining cake flour into mixture. Stir in vanilla extract and oil.Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake at 375ºF for 5 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 350°F and continue baking an additional 7–8 minutes until cake is golden and springy yet firm to the touch. Allow to cool on wire rack.Invert cake on fresh parchment. Peel existing paper from bottom of cake. Roll with prepared fillings. Cover with plastic wrap and chill until ready to serve.For the strawberry jam filling: In a small saucepan, add chopped strawberries, sugar and water. Allow to boil, then bring down heat, having mixture simmer, while stirring occasionally for 5–8 minutes. Heat until thick. Turn off heat. Stir in apricot preserves. Take off heat. Cool completely.For the whipped cream: Using whisk attachment of stand mixer, beat chilled cream on high until soft shiny peaks form. Add sugar and continue to beat until stiff, yet shiny. Spread over strawberry layer.Spread the strawberry filling evenly over cake, leaving a 1/4 inch border on sides. Spread a layer of whipped cream over mixture.For the Nutella-raspberry filling: Spread Nutella over cake, leaving 1/4 inch border on sides. Layer raspberries over Nutella. Gently smash/crush raspberries with a spoon.Spread cooled cake with filling of choice. Roll cake from the short end, keeping filling intact, tightly, rolling from end to end firmly. Cover with plastic wrap to together and further keep shape. Chill in refrigerator.Sprinkle with powdered sugar, top with fresh fruit, if desired. Cut into 1/2 inch slices with a serrated knife.

Pumpkin Marshmallow Toffee Cookies
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter
1/4 cups Packed Light Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
6 Tablespoons Pumpkin Puree (not Pumpkin Pie Filling!)
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1-1/2 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1/3 teaspoons Allspice
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1/2 cups Mini Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips
1/2 cups Toffee Chips
1/2 cups Mini Marshmallows, Cut In Half (I Like Using Clean Kitchen Scissors For This)

In a medium bowl, whisk melted butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar together until no lumps remain. Whisk in vanilla and pumpkin puree until smooth. Set aside.In a large bowl, toss together flour, salt, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, nutmeg, allspice, and cloves. Pour the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients and mix together with a large spoon or rubber spatula. Fold in mini semi-sweet chocolate chips and toffee chips until evenly dispersed in the dough. Cover dough and chill for at least 30 minutes.Remove the dough from the refrigerator. Preheat oven to 350°F. Line two large baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats.Roll the dough into balls, about 1 1/2 tablespoons of dough each, and slightly flatten with the palm of your hand.Bake the cookies for 7 minutes. Remove from the oven and press 3 to 4 pieces of marshmallow halves on top of each cookie. Return to the oven for another 2–3 minutes. Remove from the oven. Cookies will appear undone and very soft. Press a few more chocolate chips or toffee pieces onto the tops, if desired.Allow the cookies to cool for at least 10 minutes on the cookie sheets before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely, about 1 hour. Store in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 7 days.

Butternut Squash Coffee Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
1/4 cups Butter, Room Temperature
4 ounces, weight Brick Style Cream Cheese, Room Temperature
3/4 cups Dark Brown Sugar
1/3 cups Cane Sugar
2 Large Eggs, Room Temperature
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 cup Butternut Squash Puree
1/3 cups Full-fat Sour Cream
1/4 cups Whole Milk
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/4 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1/4 teaspoons Cloves
FOR THE STREUSEL:
1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/4 cups Softened Butter
Pinch Of Salt

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease an 8×8 in pan and line with parchment paper.In the bowl of your stand mixer, cream butter, cream cheese and sugars together until light and creamy, scraping the sides and bottom of the bowl as necessary. Add eggs and vanilla, one at a time and beat until light and fluffy. Add butternut squash puree and mix well.Combine sour cream and milk in a small bowl and whisk until well combined then add to the stand mixer. Beat well.Sift together flour, baking powder, soda, salt and spices then slowly add them to the mixer, mixing on medium-low. Mix until just combined, taking care not to over-mix. Pour into prepared cake pan.In another bowl, combine all streusel ingredients, using your fingers to rub the butter into the flour and sugar mixture. When mixture resembles coarse crumbs, pour over top of the cake batter. Press down lightly to help the streusel stick to the batter.Bake on the center rack for 50–55 minutes or until a cake tester inserted comes out clean. Allow to cool in the pan on a wire rack for 20–30 minutes then carefully remove it from the pan using the parchment paper sides.Allow to completely finish cooling on the wire rack then cut into 12 slices.

Pumpkin Oatmeal Bars
1 can (29 Oz. Size) Pumpkin
1/2 cups Sugar
1 cup Cane Sugar
2 whole Eggs
1/2 cups Butter
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1-1/2 cup Flour
1-1/2 cup Oatmeal
2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1/4 cups Powdered Sugar, For Topping (optional)

Heat oven to 350ºF. Grease bottom and sides of 9 x 13 inch baking pan. Mix pumpkin, sugars, eggs, butter and vanilla in a large bowl.Mix together flour, oatmeal, baking soda, baking powder, cinnamon and cloves in a smaller bowl and add to the pumpkin mixture. Beat well together and pour into prepared pan.Bake for 30–35 minutes or until toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Let cool and sprinkle with powdered sugar.Cut into squares and serve. This can be stored at room temperature for up to 4 days or refrigerated for up to 10 days. These also freeze very well.

Chocolate Coconut Cupcakes
1 cup Full-fat Coconut Milk
3/4 cups Sugar
1/3 cups Liquid Coconut Oil
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1-1/4 cup All-purpose Flour
1/3 cups Cocoa Powder
3/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE FROSTING:
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened To Room Temperature
4 Tablespoons Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
3/4 cups Powdered Sugar
1 pinch Salt
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
100 drops Blue Food Coloring
30 drops Green Food Coloring

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a cupcake tin with cupcake papers.In a small bowl, whisk together coconut milk, sugar and coconut oil until combined. Stir in vanilla and set aside.In a separate, larger bowl, sift together dry ingredients: flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. Give the mix a good stir to combine the ingredients. Once combined, make a well in the dry ingredients and add the coconut milk mixture. Mix until combined, being careful to not over-mix.Spoon the mix evenly into the cupcake liners until each tin is about 3/4 full. Bake for 20 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the middle of the cake comes out cleanly. Once baked, transfer to a cooling rack to cool completely before frosting the cupcakes.Meanwhile, prepare the frosting. In the bowl of a mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, add softened cream cheese and softened butter. Beat on medium until well combined. With the mixer on a low speed, gradually add powdered sugar until desired consistency. Add more powdered sugar for a thicker frosting. Once the frosting reaches the desired consistency, add salt, vanilla and food coloring (only if you want teal frosting).Frost your cupcakes and add desired toppings!

Easy Chocolate Peanut Butter No-Bake Cookies
1/2 cups Butter
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups Brown Sugar (lightly Packed)
1/2 cups Milk
4 Tablespoons Cocoa Powder
1/3 cups Creamy Peanut Butter
2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
3 cups Old Fashioned Rolled Oats

In a medium pot over medium high heat, mix together butter, sugars, milk, and cocoa powder. Bring ingredients to a rolling boil. Allow to boil for at least 1 1/2 minutes.Remove from heat. Add peanut butter and vanilla extract. Fold in oats.Spoon heaping spoonfuls of mixture onto parchment paper or a cookie sheet. Put in freezer for 10 minutes, in refrigerator for 30 minutes, or on counter for 1 hour. Enjoy!Note: More oats may be added if mixture appears too thin.

Salted Honey Hazelnut Apple Tarts
1/2 cups Chopped Hazelnuts
1/2 cups All-purpose Flour, Plus 1 Tablespoon, Divided
1/2 cups Vegetable Shortening
3 teaspoons Ice Cold Water
1 teaspoon Almond Extract
1 cup Chopped Apples (granny Smith Or Honeycrisp)
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons All Spice
1/4 cups Honey
FOR DRIZZLING:
Reserved Liquid From Apple Filling
1 Tablespoon Honey
1 teaspoon Cornstarch
Salt For Sprinkling

Preheat oven to 425ºF.Puree hazelnuts in a food processor until finely chopped. Add 1/2 cup flour to create meal, then pulse in shortening just until crust begins to clump into meal the size of peas.In a separate small bowl, mix remaining 1 tablespoon flour with cold water and extract. Mix into meal until it follows the fork. Add more water or flour as needed.Roll out the dough 1/4 inch thick on a floured surface and cut large circles for the tarts. Save some crust for cutouts to top the tarts. Put the circles into a muffin pan, crimping the edges in slightly to create a curved edged. Set aside the cut-outs.Take chopped apples, sprinkle with spices and stir in honey. Let filling sit for several minutes before draining off excess liquid. Reserve liquid and fill tarts with scoop of apple filling. Top with leaf cutout and place in oven. Bake for 5 minutes, then reduce temperature to 350ºF and bake for an additional 10 minutes. Remove form oven to cool.In a small pot on the stove at medium heat, bring remaining apple juices to a boil and whisk in honey and cornstarch. Cook just another minute or two until thickened, then remove from heat. Drizzle onto tarts and sprinkle with salt. Best served warm.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Apricot, Almond & Flaxseed Homemade Energy Bars
1-1/2 cup Raw Almonds
1-1/2 cup Dried Apricots
1 cup Dates, Pitted
1/3 cups Unsweetened Shredded Coconut
3 Tablespoons Bob's Red Mill Flaxseed Meal
1 teaspoon Fresh Lemon Zest
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon

Add raw almonds to the food processor and process until crumbly but not fully pulverized. Add remaining ingredients and process everything together until it forms a ball or sticks to itself and is fully combined. You may need to press it down a few times using a spatula to get everything even incorporated.To press the mixture into the bars, use a small, shallow baking dish and line it with parchment paper, then place the processed mixture into the baking dish. Using your hands, evenly press into the dish, taking care to keep everything as fully packed and level as possible, since the bars will be cut from this mold. (I use a second sheet of parchment paper to push down the mixture evenly into the dish so it doesn’t stick to my hands.)Place the mold into the fridge for about 20–30 minutes to allow the bars to harden. Once more solidified, lay the mold out on a cutting board and slice once in half lengthwise, and then again to create the individual bars. You should have about 12 to 14 bars.I keep these stored in the fridge, separated by parchment paper to keep them from sticking. They’ll last over a week in an airtight container.

Pineapple Pound Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
1-1/4 cup Sugar
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
4 Eggs, Separated
1 cup Canola Oil
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
3-1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
3/4 teaspoons Salt
1/4 cups Cold Water
8 ounces, weight Canned Crushed Pineapple, undrained
1 cup Pecans, Chopped And Toasted, Plus More For Sprinkling
FOR THE ICING:
1 Tablespoon Unsalted Butter
3 cups Sifted Powdered Sugar
1 Tablespoon Water
3 Tablespoons Lemon Juice

Preheat oven to 325°F. Line a 10-inch tube pan with parchment paper.In a small bowl, combine sugar, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Set aside.In another bowl, beat egg whites until stiff. Add 1/4 of the sugar mixture while beating. Set aside.In a large bowl, mix the rest of the sugar mixture, egg yolks, and canola oil. Stir in flour, baking powder, and salt. Continue beating as you add water and pineapple. Beat until batter is smooth. Add nuts and beaten egg whites. Pour batter into the pan.Bake for 1 hour and 30 minutes or until an inserted toothpick comes out clean. When done, let cool for 20 minutes, before turning it out.Now let’s make the icing. In a small pan, melt butter and add powdered sugar, water, and lemon juice. Whisk until sugar has melted. If mixture is too thick, add some more water; if too runny, add more powdered sugar. Pour the icing over the cake, Sprinkle with the pecans.

Salted Caramel Pecan Popcorn
1 bag (3 Oz. Size) Organic Or Natural Unsalted Microwave Popcorn
1 cup Pecans, Halves
1 stick High Quality Butter
1/2 cups High Quality Caramel Sauce
1 teaspoon Sea Salt

Preheat oven to 300ºF. Place a layer of parchment paper on a medium size cookie sheet. Set aside.Make popcorn according to package directions. If you make you own popcorn, do not add salt or butter but I find that microwave popcorn works just fine. Pour popped popcorn on to the cookie tray and add the pecans.Melt butter in the microwave for 20 seconds. Stir to smooth out. Pour over the popcorn and pecan mix, evenly. Do the same with the caramel. Sprinkle with sea salt.Bake for 15 minutes, stop to mix (this is important, otherwise the popcorn will be unevenly coated). Bake for another 15 minutes. Remove from oven and let it cool off for 5 minutes before serving.

Pistachio Rose Cookies
4-1/2 ounces, weight Shelled Pistachios, About 1 1/4 Cups
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar, Divided
2 whole Egg Whites
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 pinch Salt
1/2 teaspoons Rose Water
3/4 cups All-purpose Flour

Set up a food processor and combine the pistachios with 1/4 cup of the sugar in its bowl. Process until they become a fine crumb and set aside.In another large bowl, whip egg whites with a hand mixer until they start to form soft peaks. Add the remaining 1/2 cup sugar, cinnamon and salt and continue to beat egg whites until they form stiff peaks. Then add pistachio crumbs, rose water and flour in and beat the mixture together just until combined into a dough. Cover the bowl and set it in the refrigerator to chill for at least 1 hour.Once dough has chilled, preheat the oven to 375ºF and line a sheet tray with a silicone mat. Use a 1 1/2-inch cookie scoop to scoop perfect little mounds of dough onto the sheet tray. These do not spread much at all, so I squeezed 18 on one sheet with a little space between them. Two sheets of 9 would also have worked!Bake the cookies for about 12–15 minutes, until slightly brown around the edges and baked through. Let them cool for 5 minutes, then transfer them to a rack to finish cooling. Serve them as needed and enjoy! They will keep for days in a sealed container.

Milk Chocolate Toffee & Hazelnut Cookies
1 cup Unsalted Butter
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
3/4 cups Light Brown Sugar
2 Large Eggs
1-1/2 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
2-1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Salt
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Soda
1-1/2 cup Milk Chocolate Toffee Bits
1 cup Chopped Hazelnuts

Preheat oven to 350ºF.In a stand mixer, cream together butter, granulated sugar, and light brown sugar on low speed. Add eggs and pure vanilla extract. Stop mixing once the eggs are just incorporated.In a mixing bowl, combine together flour, salt, and baking soda. Turn the stand mixer on low speed. Gradually add flour mixture to the creamy butter mixture. Add milk chocolate toffee bits and chopped hazelnuts until incorporated.Spoon cookie batter, a generous tablespoon at a time, onto ungreased nonstick cookie sheet. Bake for 8–10 minutes.

Blueberry Cream Tart
FOR THE SHORTBREAD CRUST:
3/4 cups Cold Butter Cubed
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE FILLING:
2 packages (8 Oz. Size) Cream Cheese, Softened
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
5 Tablespoons Whipping Or Heavy Cream, At Least 35%
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
12 Tablespoons Blueberry Syrup, Divided
Fresh Blueberries For Topping

For the crust: Preheat oven to 350ºF.Add butter, flour, sugar, and salt to a food processor. Pulse several times until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs. (This can also be done by hand using a pastry cutter or two knives.) Transfer the mixture to an 11-inch tart pan with a removable bottom. Firmly press the mixture into the bottom and up the sides of the tart pan. Place in the freezer for 10 minutes. Remove from the freezer and bake for 15 minutes. Remove from the oven and place on a wire rack to cool.For the filling: Using an electric mixer, cream together cream cheese and sugar until well combined. Add whipping cream and vanilla extract and mix until light and fluffy.Spread half of the creamy filling over the cooled crust, using an offset spatula to spread the filling to the edges. Drizzle 3 to 4 tablespoons of blueberry syrup over the filling. Spread the remainder of the filling over the drizzled syrup and gently spread the filling to the edges.. Drizzle another 3 to 4 tablespoons of blueberry syrup over the top.Fill the surface of the tart with fresh blueberries and then drizzle the remaining 3 to 4 tablespoons of blueberry syrup over the top. Refrigerate for 2–3 hours before serving.

Cookie Butter Rice Krispie Treats
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter
3 cups Mini Marshmallows, Divided
1/2 cups Cookie Butter (I Used Crunchy)
1/4 teaspoons Kosher Salt
4 cups Rice Krispies Cereal
FOR THE TOPPING:
1/2 cups Cookie Butter (I Used Crunchy)
1 cup Semisweet Chocolate Chips

Grease an 8×8-inch baking dish and set aside.In a large sauce pan, melt butter over medium heat until melted completely. Add 2 cups of mini marshmallows. Cook, stirring occasionally, until marshmallows are completely melted. Add cookie butter and salt. Stir continuously with a wooden spoon until smooth. Remove pan from heat and add the rice krispies and remaining 1 cup of mini marshmallows. Quickly stir, ensuring that all the cereal is coated in the marshmallow mixture.Turn the mixture out into the prepared pan. Press into pan with a rubber spatula or your fingertips. Set aside.For the topping, add the cookie butter and chocolate chips to a medium saucepan. Set over low heat and stir occasionally until the mixture is melted and completely smooth.Pour the topping over the treats and tilt the pan to spread into an even layer. Allow the topping to set completely in the fridge for 30 minutes before cutting into squares and serving.These treats keep well stored in an airtight container in the fridge for 1 week. Just take them out for a few minutes before serving.Recipe adapted from Tracey’s Culinary Adventures.

Chicken Pot Pie
FOR THE PIE DOUGH:
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Salt
2 sticks Unsalted Butter, Cut Into Little Cubes, Chilled
6 Tablespoons Cold Water
FOR THE FILLING:
6 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
1 piece Large Onion, Chopped
3 pieces Carrots, Thinly Sliced
1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
2-1/2 cups Low Sodium Chicken Stock
1/2 cups Milk
1/2 cups Heavy Cream
6 cups Shredded Chicken Thigh Meat
1/4 cups White Wine
3/4 cups Green Peas, Frozen Or Fresh
3/4 cups Corn Kernels, Frozen Or Fresh
1 teaspoon Salt
1 teaspoon Pepper
FOR THE EGG WASH:
1 whole Large Egg, Lightly Beaten
1 Tablespoon Heavy Cream

To prepare crust, whisk flour and salt in a large bowl. Add butter and rub it in the flour mixture with your fingers until it resembles coarse sand.Add 4 tablespoons of water and mix the dough together. Add more water, a tablespoon at a time, until the dough hold together when pinched.Form a disc on a lightly floured surface. Fold the dough in half, press down to the original size and fold in half again. Repeat two more times until the dough is smooth.Divide the dough into 2 pieces, in the ratio of 2/3 and 1/3, and form 2 discs. Wrap dough with plastic wrap and refrigerate for about 30 minutes to chill.To prepare pie filling, melt butter on medium heat in a large skillet. Add onions and carrots, and cook until the onions are translucent, about 5 minutes.Add flour and cook, stirring for another minute. Slowly whisk in chicken stock to blend completely with the flour. Add milk and cream. Decrease the heat to low and simmer for 10 minutes, stirring often. Add the chicken meat, wine, peas, corn, salt and pepper and stir well. Taste and adjust seasoning if necessary. Let cool to room temperature.Remove the large dough from the fridge. Roll it on a floured surface, until around 3mm thick. Line a greased 9-inch pie pan with the rolled dough. Make sure you leave a tiny overhang of dough.Roll the small dough until around 3mm thick, and cut into 12 to 14 strips, each around 1/2 inch wide. Pour the pie filling into the prepared pie shell. Lay 6 or 7 strips over the filling, evenly spaced, and then weave with the remaining strips diagonally. Fold back the edge of the shell over the edge of the lattice strips, and crimp to secure.Mix the egg wash ingredients, and brush the dough with the mixture. Bake at 350ºF for about 50–55 minutes, until filling is bubbling and crust is golden. Let cool for 5 minutes and serve.

Peach Blueberry Pie
FOR THE CRUST:
1/3 cups Ice Water
3 Tablespoons Sour Cream
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Salt
14 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Cut Into Little Cubes, Chilled
FOR THE FILLING:
4 whole Peaches, Peeled And Sliced
1 cup Blueberries
1/4 cups Sucanat
1 teaspoon Grated Lemon Zest
1 teaspoon Salt
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cardamom
3 Tablespoons All-purpose Flour
1 Tablespoon Cornstarch
FOR THE EGG WASH:
1 piece Egg Yolk
1 Tablespoon Heavy Cream

To prepare crust, whisk ice water and sour cream together in a bowl.Process flour and salt in food processor until combined. Scatter chilled butter over top and pulse until butter is size of small lentils.Drizzle half of the sour cream mixture over top and pulse until incorporated, about 3 pulses; repeat with remaining sour cream mixture.Pinch dough with your fingers; if dough feels dry and does not hold together, add 1 or 2 tablespoons more ice water and pulse until dough forms large clumps and no dry flour remains, 3 to 5 pulses.Divide dough into 2 even pieces. Form each dough into 4-inch disk, wrap tightly in plastic wrap, and refrigerate for 1 hour. Before rolling dough out, let it sit on counter to soften slightly, about 10 minutes.Roll 1 piece dough into 12-inch circle on lightly floured counter. Loosely roll dough around rolling pin and gently unroll it onto 9-inch pie plate, letting excess dough hang over edge. Ease dough into plate by gently lifting edge of dough with your hand while pressing into plate bottom with your other hand. Wrap loosely in plastic wrap and refrigerate until dough is firm, about 30 minutes.Roll second piece of dough into 12-inch circle on lightly floured counter, transfer to parchment paper-lined baking sheet and cover with plastic, refrigerate for 30 minutes.To prepare pie filling, toss peaches and blueberries in a medium bowl. Mix the remaining filling ingredients and pour it over the fruit, gently toss together with a wooden spoon. Let sit at room temperature for 30 minutes.Preheat oven to 425ºF. Pour the pie filling into the prepared bottom pie shell. Drape the top crust over the filling. Crimp dough evenly around edge of plate using your fingers.Mix the egg wash ingredients, and brush the dough with the mixture.Set pie on a large cookie sheet. Bake about 25 minutes, until the crust is light golden brown. Reduce oven temperature to 375ºF, and continue baking for another 25 minutes, until filling is bubbling and the crust is deep golden brown.Remove pie from oven, and let it sit in room temperature for 30 minutes. Serve with vanilla ice cream.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

White Chocolate Pumpkin Pie Biscotti
1/4 cups Soft Butter
2/3 cups Brown Sugar
1-1/4 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1/4 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
Pinch Of Black Pepper
1 Large Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 cup White Chocolate Chips, Divided

Preheat oven to 350ºF.In the bowl of a stand mixer, cream together butter, brown sugar and spices. Add egg and vanilla, beat well until light and creamy. Add pumpkin and beat well.In a large bowl, sift together flour, salt and baking powder. Add to the wet ingredients and mix until combined. Stir in ½ cup white chocolate chips. Dough will be very sticky.On a parchment-paper-lined baking sheet, with greased hands, divide dough into two balls and press into two logs about 1-inch thick. Bake for 20 minutes. Remove from the oven and reduce temperature to 300ºF. Allow dough to rest for 5 minutes then slice in to 20 to 24 cookies.Lay cookies cut side down on baking sheet and bake for an additional 15 minutes. Flip cookies and continue to make for 10 more minutes. Remove cookies from the oven and allow to cook completely on the baking sheet on a wire rack.When cool, melt remaining white chocolate and generously drizzle over each biscotti. When chocolate has set, store in an airtight container on the counter for up to 3 weeks.

Frozen Yogurt Bark with Raspberries and Pistachios
2 cups Plain Greek Yogurt
3 Tablespoons Raw Honey, Melted
1/8 teaspoons Sea Salt
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
6 ounces, weight Fresh Raspberries, Sliced In Half
1/3 cups Pistachios, Finely Chopped

Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper and then set aside.In a medium mixing bowl, combine plain, unsweetened greek yogurt, raw honey, sea salt, and vanilla extract and mix until smooth. Gently fold in the sliced raspberries.Pour mixture into the center of the prepared baking sheet and spread to approximately ¼-inch thickness, taking care to keep as even as possible. Sprinkle with chopped pistachios and then place into the freezer overnight until completely firm, or at least 4–6 hours.Once frozen, break into pieces using your hands. Any extras can be stored in the fridge for up to 2 weeks.

Butterscotch Chocolate Chunk Cookies
3-1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Sea Salt
1 cup Unsalted Butter, At Room Temperature
1-1/2 cup Packed Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Large Eggs
2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
1 cup Butterscotch Chips
1 cup Chocolate Chunks
Sea Salt, For Sprinkling On Cookies

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a large baking sheet with a Silpat baking mat or parchment paper and set aside.In a medium bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and sea salt. Set aside.Using a stand mixer, cream butter and sugars together for about 3 minutes. Add eggs and vanilla and mix until combined. With the mixer on low, slowly add dry ingredients. Stir in butterscotch chips and chocolate chunks.Form the cookie dough into balls, about 2 tablespoons of dough. Place on prepared baking sheet, about 2 inches apart. Sprinkle with sea salt, if desired.Bake cookies for 10–12 minutes or until edges are slightly golden brown. Remove from oven and let cookies cool on the baking sheet for 2–3 minutes. Transfer to a wire cooling rack and cool completely.

Nutella Stuffed Pumpkin Cookie Bars
2 cups Plain Or All Purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Cornflour Or Cornstarch
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/4 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
3/4 cups Light Brown Sugar
1 Large Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
3/4 cups Nutella

Preheat oven to 180ºC (350ºF or Gas 4). Line an 8×8-inch pan with foil and spray with baking spray. Set aside.Whisk together flour, cornflour, baking soda, salt, and spices. Set aside.Whisk together butter and sugar until combined. Add egg, vanilla, and pumpkin, and mix until combined. Fold in dry ingredients.Press half of the dough into the prepared pan, and bake for 8 minutes. Microwave the Nutella until softened, then pour onto the cookie layer and spread out evenly. Place the remaining cookie dough on top.Bake for another 15–20 minutes until golden brown on top. Allow to cool completely in the pan on a wire rack before drizzling with more Nutella and cutting into bars.

Chocolate Brownie Energy Balls
1 cup Dates, Pitted
1 cup Raw Walnuts
1/4 cups Dark Cocoa Powder
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/4 teaspoons Sea Salt
Clean Caramel Sauce And Coarse Sea Salt For Topping (optional)

In the bowl of a food processor, combine pitted dates, raw walnuts, dark cocoa powder, vanilla extract, and sea salt. Process until mixture is fully broken down and evenly mixed together.Grab a small handful of the mixture and roll into a ball using your hands. Repeat with the remaining mixture and then place in the fridge for about 30 minutes to 1 hour to solidify.To take these energy balls to the next level, I also like to drizzle my clean coconut sugar caramel sauce over the top of these brownie energy balls and then top with a little coarse sea salt.

Mascarpone Fig Chocolate Tart
FOR THE CRUST:
1-1/4 cup All-purpose Flour, Plus Additional As Needed For Bench Flour
1/4 cups Cocoa Powder
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 stick Butter, Cold And Cut Into Cubes
1 whole Egg Yolk
1/4 cups Ice Cold Water
FOR THE FILLING:
1 pound Mascarpone Cheese, Softened To Room Temperature
1/2 cups Honey
1 Tablespoon Balsamic Vinegar
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
13 whole Fresh Figs, Halved
Powdered Sugar, As Needed For Sprinkling On Top

Please note there is a total of 4 1/2 hours of inactive prep time for this tart.First, prepare the crust. Combine flour, cocoa powder, salt and cinnamon in the bowl of a food processor and pulse it all together to aerate the dry ingredients. Then add the butter in and pulse it until the mixture becomes pebbly. Finally, add the egg yolk and cold water and run the processor just until the dough comes together. Turn the dough out onto a well flour surface and roll it out into a disc that is about 10 inches in diameter. Wrap the disc in plastic wrap and let it sit in the refrigerator for 1 hour to rest.When the hour is up, take a 9-inch fluted tart pan with removable bottom and spray it well with cooking spray. Take the disc and press it out firmly and evenly into the tart pan, taking care to press it well into the ridges as well. Put the tart crust back in the refrigerator for another 15–20 minutes to get cold again. While it sits, preheat oven to 350ºF. Line the tart crust with foil when it is ready and fill it with dry beans or pie weights. Blind bake the crust for 30 minutes.When the 30 minutes are up, remove the foil with the beans and bake the crust for another 10 minutes to let the bottom dry out. Then take the crust out and set it aside to cool completely. While the crust cools, prepare the easy filling. Combine the mascarpone, honey, balsamic and cinnamon together in a large bowl and whip it all together well with a hand mixer. Set it aside.When the crust is completely cooled, spread the mascarpone mixture evenly into the crust. Then line up the fig halves cut side up into the filling, pressing them in so that they stay put. Let the tart set completely in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours. When you are ready to serve it, place the tart pan on a large can and let the outer shell fall off. Then gently slide the tart from the bottom onto a cake plate. Dust it with powdered sugar for the perfect finishing it touch. Then cut and serve for an amazing treat!

Jamaican Rum Cake
1/4 cups Raisins
1/2 cups Pitted Prunes
1 cup White Rum, Plus 1/4 Cup More For Sprinkling
2-3/4 cups All-purpose Flour, Plus More For Dusting The Pan
1-1/2 Tablespoon Baking Powder
1-1/2 teaspoon Teaspoons Salt
1 Tablespoon Ground Cinnamon
1/2 Tablespoons Ground Nutmeg
2 sticks Unsalted Butter, At Room Temperature
2-1/2 cups Dark Brown Sugar
4 Large Eggs, At Room Temperature
1-1/2 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
1/4 cups Molasses
Powdered Sugar, For Dusting

Bring the rum to a boil in a saucepan. When it has boiled, remove from heat and add the raisins and prunes into it. Cover and let sit until almost all the liquid is absorbed by dried fruit. If there is still much liquid left, turn on the heat and simmer for a few minutes. When done, process the fruit in a blender and set aside.Preheat oven to 350°F. Fill a half of a baking pan with water and place it on the oven’s bottom shelf to create steam.Get a 9-inch cake pan ready by lining it with parchment paper and spraying with some cooking spray. Dust with the flour, tapping out excess.In a bowl, sift the flour, baking powder, salt, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Set aside.Using a mixer with a paddle attachment, cream the butter and brown sugar until fluffy. Incorporate the eggs, one at a time. Add the vanilla extract, molasses, and the rum soaked fruit and mix. On a low speed, add the flour and baking powder mixture. Do it in batches, it will be easier.Pour the batter into the 9-inch cake pan and bake until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. It should take about 50–60 minutes.When done, transfer to a cooling rack, wait for a couple of minutes and turn it upside down. Sprinkle with some more rum. Let cool, flip the cake back and dust with some powdered sugar.

No-Bake Pumpkin Chocolate Chip Icebox Cake
3 cups Cold Heavy Whipping Cream
1/4 cups Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Pure Pumpkin
2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice
20 Sheets Of Honey Graham Crackers
3/4 cups Semi-sweet Chocolate Chips, Divided

In a large bowl, beat heavy whipping cream with an electric hand mixer or stand mixer with fitted paddle attachment until soft peaks form. Add powdered sugar, vanilla extract, pumpkin, and pumpkin pie spice. Mix to thoroughly combine. Set aside.Spread an even layer of graham crackers onto bottom of a 9×13 baking dish. Spoon a layer of whipped cream mixture over graham crackers and evenly spread, covering entire dish. Top with 1/4 cup chocolate chips. Repeat process twice more, ending with chocolate chips.Cover and refrigerate for at least 4 hours, or overnight. Cut into squares and serve. Enjoy!

Chocolate Peanut Butter Cup
16 ounces, weight Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
1 Tablespoon Coconut Oil
1/2 cups Creamy Peanut Butter

Melt chocolate in double boiler (place a heat proof bowl over boiling water). Add coconut oil and mix until the chocolate has completely melted and is creamy and smooth.Pour a layer of the melted chocolate into a silicone mold (paper muffin cups will work just fine!). Place it in freezer for about 15 minutes.Remove the chocolate from freezer, add about ½ tablespoon of peanut butter. Keep refrigerated.

Double Chocolate Cream Cheese Cookies
2 cups Plain Or All Purpose Flour
2 Tablespoons Cocoa Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Cornflour Or Cornstarch
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cubes Unsalted Butter, melted
1/4 cups Cream Cheese, Softened
3/4 cups Light Brown Sugar
1 Large Egg
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 cup Chocolate Chips (and Some Extra For Topping)

Preheat oven to 180ºC (350ºF or Gas 4) and line a baking tray with parchment paper, or a silicone mat. Set aside.Whisk together flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, cornflour, baking soda, and salt. Set aside.Whisk together butter, cream cheese, and sugar. Add egg and mix until combined, then mix in vanilla extract. Fold in dry ingredients, then fold in chocolate chips.Roll dough into 1 1/2-ounce balls, about 18 – 20 balls, and place on the prepared baking tray. Flatten slightly, then press the extra chocolate chips on top. Bake for 8–10 minutes. Do not over-bake. Allow to cool on the baking tray for 5–10 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Chocolate Banana Ice Cream
3 whole Large Ripe Bananas
2 Tablespoons Dark Cocoa Powder

Slice bananas into approximately ¼ inch slices and place the on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper, allowing the slices a little space in between so they don’t touch each other. Place them into the freezer and freeze for at least 3–4 hours to allow to fully harden.Place the frozen banana slices into the bowl of a food processor or a heavy duty blender. Process the banana, scraping the sides of the food processor as needed. After a few minutes, the mixture will resemble soft-serve ice cream.Add the dark cocoa powder at this time and blend again. You may need to use a spatula to help it along at this time.While you could eat the ice cream right now, it will be super soft, so I recommend transferring it to an airtight container and freezing until it’s a little more solid, in about 1 hour.

Salted Caramel Breakfast Smoothie
1/2 cups Cashew Cream (See Note)
1/4 cups Almond Butter
1 teaspoon Chia Seeds
2 Medjool Dates, Pitted And Quartered
1/8 cups Maple Syrup
1/8 teaspoons Sea Salt
1/4 cups Ice Cubes
1 dash Vanilla Extract (optional)

Combine cashew cream, almond butter, and chia seeds in blender and mix on high speed until blended. Add dates and maple syrup. Continue blending on high speed until dates are broken down into tiny pieces. Add sea salt and blend until well mixed.Drop ice cubes into blender while it is on and blend until smooth. Add vanilla extract, if using.If desired, serve topped with coconut milk, dates, or sliced almonds.Note: To make the cashew cream, I soaked 1 cup cashews in warm water for about 2 hours. If you are thinking ahead, soaking overnight will soften the cashews even more, making them easier to blend. After soaking, I blend the 1 cup of cashews with approximately ½ cup water on low speed until well blended. I add more water as necessary, but only in small amounts so as to encourage blending without making the cream too watery. This process usually takes about 5–6 minutes. If you are planning to double this recipe, you can leave the entire cashew cream mixture in your blender and double all remaining ingredients, pouring them right into the same blender aaccording to the instructions.

Chocolate Chambord Shortbread Bars
2 sticks Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
2/3 cups Powdered Sugar
1 Tablespoon Cocoa Powder
1 Tablespoon Chambord
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 cup Mini Chocolate Chips

Set up a stand mixer with the paddle attachment and combine the butter and powdered sugar in its bowl. Beat them together for 2–3 minutes until really fluffy and creamy. Add in the cocoa powder, chambord and vanilla and let them get thoroughly mixed in. Turn the speed to low and slowly add in the flour and let it just get mixed in. It’s important not to over mix it. Turn off the stand mixer and switch to a spatula to fold in the mini chocolate chips.Transfer the dough into a gallon zip top bag and form it into a tight rectangle that goes the length of the bag. Close the bag and let it chill in the refrigerator for at least 2 hours. When it is done chilling, slit the bag open completely and turn it out onto a cutting board. Pre-heat the oven to 325ºF and line a baking sheet with a silicone mat or parchment paper. Slice the rectangle of dough into 1-inch thick bars and line them up on the sheet tray. Pierce each of the bars with a fork on the top and the bottom for the signature shortbread marks.Bake the bars for about 20 minutes, until baked through completely but still slightly soft and buttery. Let them cool for at least 20–30 minutes. While they are cooling, dust them with powdered sugar on top. Serve them with fantastic coffee or tea and enjoy!

Chewy Pumpkin Spice Cookies
1 cup Pumpkin Puree
1/3 cups Applesauce
1 Tablespoon Maple Syrup
2 teaspoons Vanilla
1/4 cups Coconut Oil
1 teaspoon Molasses
1-1/4 cup Buckwheat Flour (from Ground Raw Groats)
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice
1/4 cups Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Mix wet ingredients (pumpkin, applesauce, maple syrup, vanilla, oil, molasses).Mix the dry ingredients in a separate bowl (flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, spices). Mix wet and dry ingredients, along with chocolate chips.Use a mini ice cream scoop or a tablespoon and distribute the batter onto parchment paper-lined baking sheets. Bake 14–17 minutes (I like mine a bit undercooked, as they can dry out if baked for too long). Cool and enjoy!

Healthier Chocolate Chip Cookies
2-1/4 cups Sprouted Wheat White Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Sea Salt
1 cup Butter
1-1/2 cup Whole Cane Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 whole Pastured Eggs
2 cups Organic Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 375ºF.Combine flour, baking soda and salt in small mixing bowl. Beat butter, sugar and vanilla in large mixing bowl until creamy. Add eggs one at a time, beating well.Gradually beat in flour mixture. Stir in chocolate chips.Bake 9–11 minutes. Cool for 2 minutes on cooling rack.

Watermelon Mint Popsicles
5 cups Cubed Seedless Watermelon
1 Tablespoon Fresh Mint Leaves, Chopped
1 Tablespoon Freshly Squeezed Lime Juice
1 Tablespoon Raw Honey (optional)

Add the cubed watermelon to a blender, followed by chopped fresh mint and lime juice. (If your watermelon isn’t too sweet or you just want to add a little extra sweetness, you could add a tablespoon of raw honey as well, but it’s optional.) Blend until well pureed.To remove the bits of watermelon and mint leaves, press the blended mixture through fine mesh sieve or cheesecloth. This will leave you with a smooth, watermelon liquid mixture.Pour the liquid into popsicle molds and freeze for an hour in order to solidify enough to add popsicle sticks. Freeze another 3–5 hours to set.

No-Bake Peach Tart
FOR THE CRUST:
1-1/2 cup Walnuts
1-1/2 cup Almond Flour
1/4 cups Unsweetened Shredded Coconut
1-1/2 Tablespoon Coconut Oil
3 Tablespoons Honey
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
FOR THE FILLING:
24 ounces, weight Strained Yogurt
3 Tablespoons Honey
3 Ripe Peaches

For the crust: To make the crust, place walnuts, almond flour, shredded coconut, coconut oil, honey, and cinnamon in a food processor. Process until the mixture becomes sticky and comes together.Remove the mixture and press it into a tart pan with a removable bottom. Refrigerate for at least 30 minutes.For the filling: While the crust is in the refrigerator, beat yogurt and honey until well combined. Pour it into the tart shell and use a rubber spatular to spread it evenly. Place the tart back in the refrigerator.Cut the peaches while the tart is in the refrigerator. Cut each peach in half and then thinly slice. After 30 minutes, arrange the peach slices over the filling. Drizzle with extra honey if you have a sweeter preference.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Salted Chocolate-Caramel Bars
FOR THE SHORTBREAD BASE:
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1/4 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1 stick Unsalted Butter, Cut Into Chunks, At Room Temperature
1/3 cups Sugar
1/4 cups Fine Sea Salt
FOR THE CARAMEL TOPPING:
1 cup Sugar
2 Tablespoons Water
1 Tablespoon Light Corn Syrup
1/2 cups Heavy Cream, At Room Temperature (or Slightly Warmed In A Microwave)
2 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Cut Into 3 Pieces And Very Soft
1/4 teaspoons Fleur De Sel Or A Good-size Pinch Of Fine Sea Salt
2 ounces, weight Bittersweet Chocolate, Finely Chopped
1/2 cups Pecans, Toasted And Coarsely Chopped

Center a rack in the oven and preheat it to 350ºF. Generously butter (or spray) an 8-inch square pan.For the shortbread base: Whisk together flour and cocoa powder. Working with a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, or in a large bowl with a hand mixer, beat the butter, sugar and salt together on medium speed until smooth, about 2 minutes. Turn off the mixer, add the dry ingredients all at once and beat on low until the dough comes together. This will take a little longer than you might expect, so don’t get discouraged. Give the dough a few last turns with a flexible spatula and scrape it out into the pan.Using your fingertips, pat the dough evenly over the bottom of the pan; press down and make sure to get the dough into the corners. Bake the shortbread for 21–23 minutes, rotating the pan after 10 minutes, or until it is slightly darker around the edges and just starting to pull away from the sides of the pan; it will not feel completely firm if poked gently. Transfer the pan to a rack and allow the shortbread to cool completely.For the caramel topping: Put a small bowl of cold water and a pastry brush (preferably silicone) next to the stove. Put the sugar, water, and corn syrup in a small saucepan or skillet and bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Allow the ingredients to bubble away, brushing down the sides of the pan with cold water if there are spatters and swirling the pan a couple of times once you start seeing some color, until the caramel turns a pale to medium amber. (Don’t let it get as dark as mahogany.) Lower the heat, stand away from the pan and add the cream, followed by the butter and salt—ingredients that might cause the caramel to roil. Remove the pan from the heat, drop in the chocolate and, using a silicone spatula or wooden spoon, stir to blend.Pour the hot caramel over the shortbread and sprinkle with the nuts. Allow to set at room temperature.When the caramel is firm, run a table knife around the sides of the pan, carefully unmold the cookie onto a rack and turn it over onto a cutting board. Using a long thin knife, cut 21 bars (cut into 3 strips and then cut each strip into 7 bars). Alternatively, leave the cookie whole and cut individual bars as needed.When the caramel is fully set, the cookies (cut or intact) can be wrapped in plastic and refrigerated for up to 5 days. Remove from the refrigerator about 10 minutes before serving.Recipe from Dorie’s Cookies by Dorie Greenspan.

Avocado Brownie
2 whole Eggs
1/2 cups White Sugar
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
1/4 cups Flour
1/2 cups Cocoa Powder, Unsweetened
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/4 teaspoons Sea Salt
1 whole Avocado
1/4 cups Walnuts
1/4 cups Cocoa Nibs

Preheat oven to 400ºF.Mix eggs and sugars together in a bowl. Add flour, cocoa powder, vanilla and salt and mix until combined.Mix in avocado flesh until you have a smooth, lump-free mixture. Crush walnuts and stir them into the mixture along with the cocoa nibs.Grease a brownie pan or line with baking paper. Pour the mixture into the pan and spread out evenly. Bake for 30 minutes.Enjoy!

Chewy Chai Snickerdoodles
2-1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Kosher Salt
1 teaspoon Ground Ginger
1/2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cardamom
1/4 teaspoons Ground Cloves
1/4 teaspoons Ground Allspice
4 Cracks Of Fresh Ground Black Pepper
1-1/2 cup Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Cream Cheese, Room Temperature
6 Tablespoons Melted Unsalted Butter
1/3 cups Vegetable Oil
1 Large Egg
2 Tablespoons Milk
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract
FOR THE CINNAMON SUGAR COATING:
1/4 cups Raw Or Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon

Preheat oven to 350ºF and line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Set aside.In a medium bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, ginger, cinnamon, cardamom, cloves, allspice, and pepper.In a large bowl, or in a stand mixer, add sugar, cream cheese, and butter. Beat until light and fluffy, then add oil and beat until incorporated. Add egg, milk, and vanilla, and beat until smooth. In 2 additions, add the flour mixture, scraping down the sides of the bowl as needed, until mixed.For the coating, in a shallow bowl, whisk together raw sugar and cinnamon. Scoop out 2-tablespoon-sized balls of dough using your hands or a cookie scoop. Roll the ball in your hands to make a nice ball. Roll the ball in the sugar mixture and place each ball of dough on your cookie sheet, placing 8-12 balls of dough on each sheet, depending on how much room you have. Use a glass to lightly flatten the cookie and then sprinkle the tops with some of the remaining sugar and spice.Bake for 11–12 minutes, rotating the tray halfway through, until the edges are just browned. Repeat with remaining dough. Let the cookies cool before removing them from the trays and baking more.These will keep great at room temperature in an air-tight container for up to 4 days.Recipe inspired by Adrianna Adarme from The Year of Cozy.

Peach Thyme Teacakes
2-1/4 cups All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
1-1/2 cup Granulated Sugar
1 Tablespoon Lemon Zest
3 Eggs
1 teaspoon Almond Extract
3/4 cups Ricotta Cheese
1/2 cups Heavy Cream
FOR THE SYRUP:
1/4 cups Water
2 Tablespoons Lemon Juice
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
5 sprigs Fresh Thyme
FOR THE FILLING:
3 Egg Whites
1 cup Granulated Sugar
3/4 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
1/2 cups Cream Cheese, Softened
1/3 cups Peach Preserves

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease and flour mini cake pans and set aside.Sift together flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt. Set aside.In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, beat butter until smooth. Add sugar and lemon zest. Beat on medium for 3 to 5 minutes until light and fluffy.Add eggs, one at a time, followed by the almond extract. Stop mixer and scrape down the sides and bottom of the bowl.Mix in the ricotta on medium-low. With the mixer on low, add in half of the flour mixture. Stream in the cream. Add in the remaining flour mixture and mix until just combined.Evenly distribute the batter between the prepared cake pans. Bake for 15–18 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center of the min-cakes comes out clean. Let cool on a wire rack for 10–15 minutes before removing the cakes from their pans.For the syrup: Place water, lemon juice, and sugar in a saucepan over high heat. Bring to a boil, then reduce to low. Add the thyme and simmer for 8 to 10 minutes. Remove from the heat. Let cool, then strain out the thyme from the syrup.For the filling: Place egg whites and sugar in the bowl of an electric mixer. Whisk to combine.Place a few inches of water in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Place the mixing bowl on top of the saucepan to create a double-boiler. Stirring intermittently, heat the egg mixture until hot to the touch, about 150ºF on a candy thermometer.Once hot, carefully return the mixing bowl back to the mixer. With the whisk attachment, beat the egg white mixture until the bowl returns to room temperature and you have medium-soft peaks, about 8 minutes.Stop the mixer and swap out the whisk for the paddle attachment. With the mixer on low, add the butter, a few tablespoons at a time. Once added, turn the mixer up to medium-high and mix until silky smooth.Add cream cheese and mix until combined. Add peach preserves and mix until combined.To assemble: Cut cakes crosswise into two layers. Sandwich with filling, then pipe filling on top of each cake in desired decor shape. Use a knife with a bit of filling to run around the sides, blending into the top and bottom evenly. Decorate with thyme leaves. Savor summer.

Strawberry Mocha Pops
3/4 cups Frozen Strawberries
1 cup Water
1/2 Tablespoons White Sugar
2 cups International Delight Iced Coffee In Mocha

In the canister of a blender, add strawberries, water, and white sugar. Blend until completely smooth.Pour into pop molds, filling about 1/3 of the way. Freeze for about 20–25 minutes, or until mostly solid. Remove from freezer and pour iced coffee over strawberry layer, filling to the top of mold.Freeze for about 20–25 minutes, or until it starts to solidify. Add pop stick and freeze until sold, about 2–3 hours. Enjoy!

Warm Chocolate Melting Cake
6 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate
6 ounces, weight Butter
4 Eggs, Room Temperature
3/4 cups Sugar
1/4 cups Flour
Confectioners Sugar, For Sprinkling

Melt chocolate on the stove using a double boiler. Melt butter for 20 seconds in the microwave.In a medium size bowl, mix eggs and sugar with a whisk for a few minutes. Add flour.Add egg mixture to melted chocolate and butter. Mix everything until combined.Pour mixture into greased ramekins. Bake directly in the oven at 390ºF for 14 minutes.Sprinkle with confectioners sugar.

Cacao Peanut Oatmeal Breakfast Bars with Banana
FOR THE BARS:
1-1/2 cup Very Ripe Banana, Mashed (about 4 Medium Bananas Or 3 Very Large, 360g)
1/3 cups Coconut Sugar
1 teaspoon Raw Apple Cider Vinegar
1 cup Rolled, Old-fashioned Oatmeal (98g)
1/2 cups Plus 2 Tablespoons Better Body Foods Organic PB Fit Powdered Peanut Butter
1/2 cups Oatmeal Flour
1/4 cups Better Body Foods Powdered Cacao
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1/4 cups Cacao Nibs, Divided
FOR THE TOPPING:
3 Tablespoons Better Body Foods Organic PB Fit Powdered Peanut Butter
2 Tablespoons Water, Or As Needed For Consistency

Preheat oven to 350ºF and rub an 8×8 inch pan with coconut oil.In a large bowl, using an electric hand mixer, beat together mashed banana, coconut sugar and apple cider vinegar. Add remaining bar ingredients, except cocoa nibs, and stir until a thick batter forms. Then, stir in 3 tablespoons of the cacao nibs, reserving the rest for later.Spread batter evenly into the prepared pan and sprinkle with the remaining cacao nibs. Bake until lightly golden, and a toothpick inserted in the middle comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Be careful not to over-bake them. Let cool completely in the pan. Once cooled, cut into squares.For the topping, mix the powdered peanut butter with the water and drizzle over the bars. Devour.

Upside-Down Apple Pie
1/3 cups Butter, Melted
1/2 cups Pecan Halves
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
1 whole Plain Pastry For Double Crust 9-inch Pie (You Can Also Use Store-bought)
6 whole Apples, Peeled, Cored And Sliced
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice
1 Tablespoon Flour
1/2 cups Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Nutmeg
1/2 teaspoons Ginger
FOR THE PASTRY:
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1/2 cups Butter
1/4 cups Ice Water

Heat oven to 375ºF.Spread butter evenly on bottom of 9-inch pie plate. Arrange nuts, rounded side down, into butter on bottom of plate. Spread brown sugar evenly over the nuts.Roll out pastry for bottom crust and place in pie plate over the nuts and brown sugar.Sprinkle apples with lemon juice. Combine with flour, sugar and spices. Pour into pie plate and arrange evenly to keep the top level.Roll out remaining pastry and place over. Crimp edges to seal. Prick top with fork and bake at 375ºF for 40–45 minutes.Remove from oven and let cool 5 minutes on wire rack. Using a sharp paring knife, gently loosen the crust around the sides of the plate. Place serving plate on top of pie and quickly turn it over. Remove pie plate.For the pastry: With fork or pastry blender, combine flour and butter. Add ice water, mix together and roll out on floured surface.

Toasted Coconut Fudge
4 cups Toasted Coconut Flakes
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Cacao Butter
1 pinch Sea Salt
2 Tablespoons Maple Syrup

Add toasted coconut flakes into the blender cup and pulse for about 45 seconds, starting with a low speed, increasing to the highest. I did not need to stop my Vitamix once, but depending on which machine you are using, you may need to stop a few times to bring the flakes to the center.Add vanilla extract, cacao butter and a pinch of sea salt. Pulse for about 30 seconds.Lastly, add maple syrup (this can be substituted for agave or honey, but it will no longer be a vegan recipe). Pulse for just a few seconds, about 15 seconds, again starting from low speed and increasing to the highest.Spray a loaf pan with coconut oil and pour the thick mixture in. Refrigerate for 3–4 hours or overnight to set.Cut the coconut fudge into small (or large, if you wish) pieces. Keep refrigerated.

The Best Snickerdoodles
FOR THE COOKIES:
1/4 cups Organic Cane Sugar
1/2 cups Grass-fed Butter, Slightly Melted
1 Egg
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla
1-1/2 cup Sprouted Flour
1/4 teaspoons Sea Salt
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Cream Of Tartar
FOR THE CINNAMON SUGAR MIXTURE:
2 Tablespoons Organic Cane Sugar
2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon

In a large mixing bowl, cream cane sugar and butter. Beat in egg and vanilla.In a small bowl, stir together flour, salt, baking soda and cream of tartar. Blend dry ingredients into the wet ingredients.In small bowl, prepare the cinnamon sugar by combining the ane sugar and cinnamon. Mix.Shape dough into 1-inch balls. Roll in cinnamon mixture. Put 2 inches apart on baking sheet. Bake for 8–10 minutes at 370ºF.

Homemade Apple Pie
FOR THE PASTRY:
3 cups Flour
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Chilled And Cubed
1/2 cups Shortening, Chilled And Cubed
6 Tablespoons Ice Cold Water
FOR THE FILLING:
6 Cooking Apples, Cored, Peeled And Thinly Sliced
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
1/4 cups Flour
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Ground Ginger
1/4 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 Large Egg, Beaten With 1 Tablespoon Milk

For the pastry: Using a food processor, add the flour, salt, and cinnamon and pulse to mix together. Add the cold butter and shortening, and pulse until the mixture resembles coarse breadcrumbs with pea-sized pieces of fat left. Add the water, 1 tablespoon at a time, and pulse until the dough begins to form large clumps. Bring together with your hands, then cut the dough in half, and shape into 1-inch thick round discs. Wrap both in clingfilm, and chill for 1 hour.On a lightly floured surface, roll out one of the dough discs to line a 9×2-inch round pie dish. Lightly press into the pie dish, making sure not to stretch. Cut off the excess pastry and shape as desired. Chill until ready to use.For the filling: Gently stir together the sliced apples, sugar, flour, cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, salt, and vanilla extract until combined. Set aside.Preheat oven to 200ºC (400ºF or Gas 6).Spoon the filling into the pie crust, and discard any leftover juices. Roll out the other dough disc to a 12-inch circle. Using a pastry wheel, or sharp knife, cut out strips about 1-inch wide. Carefully thread the strips on top of the pie, over and under one another. Press the edges into the bottom crust to seal. Cut off any excess pastry. Lightly brush the top of the pie with the egg mixture and sprinkle with a little sugar, if desired.Bake for 45–50 minutes until the apples are tender and the crust is golden brown. After the first 30 minutes of baking, cover the edge of the crust with aluminium foil to prevent excessive browning, if needed.Allow to cool on a wire rack for at least 3 hours before serving to let the filling thicken up.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Mango Passion Fruit Sorbet
4 Passion Fruits
2 Large Mangoes, Peeled, Seeded And Roughly Chopped
1/4 cups Sugar
1 Tablespoon Vodka

Halve passion fruits and scoop the pulp into a mesh strainer set over a small bowl. Use a wooden spoon to stir the seeds around to release the juice. Discard the seeds. Add the juice to a food processor along with mango, sugar and vodka. Puree until completely smooth.Freeze in an ice cream maker, then transfer to an airtight container and store in the freezer until ready to serve.

Flourless Peanut Butter Chocolate Chip Cookies
1 cup Creamy Peanut Butter
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Light Brown Sugar
1 whole Large Egg
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
3/4 cups Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line baking sheets with a silicone baking mat or parchment paper.In a large bowl, add peanut butter, both sugars, egg, salt, vanilla and baking soda until combined. Fold in chocolate chips.Drop by rounded tablespoonfuls onto prepared baking sheets and space 2 inches apart. Press down each cookie with your hand to flatten slightly.Bake for 12 minutes. Allow the cookies to cool on the baking sheet for a couple of minutes then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.

Cheesecake Swirl Carrot Bundt Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
3 cups Cake Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Ground Ginger
1/4 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
4 Large Eggs
1-1/2 cup Brown Sugar
1 cup Unsalted Butter, melted
1 cup Greek Yoghurt
3 Large Carrots, Grated
FOR THE CHEESECAKE SWIRL:
1 cube Cream Cheese, Softened
1/4 cups Sugar
1 Large Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 Tablespoons Flour
FOR THE FROSTING:
2 cups Icing Sugar
1/4 cups Cream Cheese, Softened
4 Tablespoons Heavy Cream
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

For the cake: Preheat the oven to 180ºC (350ºF or Gas 4). Grease a 10-inch bundt pan, and set aside.Whisk together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg. Set aside.Whisk together the eggs. Add the sugar, and whisk until combined. Add the melted butter and yogurt and whisk until combined. Mix in the dry ingredients, then fold in the grated carrots.Pour half of the batter into the prepared pan.For the cheesecake swirl: Using a handheld or stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the cream cheese and sugar until combined. Beat in the egg and vanilla, then fold in the flour.Spread the cheesecake mixture evenly over the cake batter, then pour the remaining batter on top. Bake for 45–50 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the centre comes out clean with moist crumbs. Let cool in the pan for 15 minutes before removing and letting cool completely on a wire rack.For the icing: Using a handheld or stand mixer, beat together the icing sugar, cream cheese, heavy cream, and vanilla extract until smooth and combined. It should be thick and spreadable. Add more cream if needed.Transfer to a piping bag and pipe over the cooled cake, then slice and serve.

Samoa Brownies
FOR THE BROWNIES:
10 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Cubed
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups Light Brown Sugar
3/4 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 Tablespoon Instant Coffee Granules
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
2 whole Eggs, Cold
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
2/3 cups All-purpose Flour
1/2 cups Chocolate Chunks Or Chocolate Chips
FOR THE COCONUT CARAMEL TOPPING
1 cup Sugar
6 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Softened And Cut Into Cubes
1/2 cups Heavy Cream, Room Temperature
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt
2-1/2 cups Sweetened Shredded Coconut

For the brownies: Preheat oven to 350ºF. Line a 9 x 9 or 8 x 8 pan with aluminum foil or parchment paper. Lightly spray with cooking spray or grease with butter. Set aside.Add butter to a medium saucepan and cook over medium heat until light brown or caramel in color, 5–10 minutes. Make sure to keep and eye on it so butter does not burn. It also helps to use a light-colored saucepan for this.Pour browned butter into a large bowl along with both sugars, cocoa powder, salt, instant coffee granules and baking powder. Stir until combined and allow to rest for 5 minutes or until mixture has cooled down.Stir in eggs and vanilla and mix until batter has a nice sheen to it. Fold in flour and stir until combined. (Do not over-mix.)Pour batter into prepared pan and bake 20–25 minutes or until top is set and an inserted toothpick comes out clean. Allow brownies to cool completely.To assemble the brownies, top them with the coconut caramel topping. Cut into 9 brownies and drizzle with melted chocolate if desired.For the coconut caramel topping: While the brownies are baking, make your coconut caramel topping.Add sugar to a medium saucepan and heat over medium heat. Stir sugar for 5–10 minutes or until sugar is completely melted and golden brown. (The sugar takes 5 minutes to start to melt and will clump up; that is fine.) When sugar is golden brown and melted, immediately take off heat and stir in butter. It will get bubbly, which is fine.Pour in heavy cream and sea salt and mix until combined. Place back on the stove for 30 seconds, stirring constantly to thicken. Remove from heat and stir in coconut flakes. Set aside until ready to assemble.

Butterfinger Macadamia Nut Cookies
2 whole Eggs
3/4 cups Brown Sugar
3/4 cups Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla
3 cups All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Sea Salt
1 cup Butter
1 cup Butterfinger Baking Bits
3/4 cups Macadamia Nut Pieces

Heat oven to 350ºF.Combine eggs, sugars and vanilla in large mixing bowl. Beat until smooth.Combine flour, baking soda and salt in a smaller bowl. Stir into egg mixture; dough will be stiff. Stir in Butterfinger bits and macadamia nut pieces.Drop by rounded tablespoons 2 inches apart on ungreased baking sheets. Bake at 350ºF for 10 to 12 minutes. Cool on baking sheet for 2 minutes and transfer to wire rack.Makes 36 large cookies.

Apple Pie Monkey Bread
1/4 cups Light Brown Sugar
1/4 cups White Sugar
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
2 cans (16 Oz. Size) Refrigerated Biscuits
1 can (20 Oz. Size) Apple Pie Filling, Roughly Chopped
FOR THE CARAMEL SAUCE:
1 cup Light Brown Sugar
3/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
FOR THE VANILLA GLAZE:
3/4 cups Powdered Sugar
2 Tablespoons Heavy Cream Or Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease a 12-cup bundt pan with nonstick cooking spray. Set aside.In a small bowl, combine brown sugar, white sugar, and cinnamon. Set aside.Separate each biscuit and cut into quarters. Roll each biscuit piece into the cinnamon sugar mixture. Place about half of the biscuit pieces in the prepared bundt pan. Spoon about half of apple pie filling over biscuits. Top with remaining biscuit pieces, followed by rest of apple pie filling. Set aside.To make the caramel sauce, add brown sugar and melted butter to a small bowl. Stir thoroughly to combine. Pour sauce over biscuits.Bake for 30–32 minutes, or until biscuits are golden and slightly set in the center. If biscuits brown too quickly, loosely cover the top of pan with foil.To make the vanilla glaze, add powdered sugar, heavy cream, and vanilla extract to a small bowl. Stir to combine. Drizzle over warm bread.Serve immediately. Enjoy!

Blue Ribbon Chewy Chocolate Cookies
1 cup All-purpose Flour
6 Tablespoons Dutch Process Cocoa Powder, Sifted
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/4 teaspoons Fine Salt
10 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature
1 cup Granulated Sugar, Plus More For Rolling
1 Large Egg
1 teaspoon Pure Vanilla Extract

In a medium bowl, whisk together flour, cocoa, baking soda, and salt; set aside until needed. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the flat beater or BeaterBlade attachment, cream butter and sugar on medium speed for about 2 minutes until it lightens in color. Add egg and vanilla; continue to mix until no traces of egg remain. Turn mixer speed down to low; add cocoa mixture and combine until no traces of dry flour or cocoa remain, scraping bowl if needed. Wrap dough in plastic and chill for at least 1 hour.Preheat oven to 350ºF, place rack in center of oven, and line 2 half sheet pans with silpat liners. Using a #50 scoop (about 1 tablespoon), roll level scoops of chilled cookie dough in the palm of your hand to form a ball; coat with granulated sugar (or vanilla sugar) and space evenly on sheet pan, 12 per pan. Bake for 9–10 minutes; remove from oven and cool for 10 minutes before transferring to a cooling rack to cool completely.

Mini Cookie Ice Cream Bowls
3/4 cups Butter, Softened
3/4 cups Brown Sugar
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
2 cups Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Salt
1 cup Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
3 cups Vanilla Ice Cream
Sundae Syrup

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Beat butter and both sugars together with a mixer until combined and there are no lumps. Add egg and vanilla extract. Beat until they are fully combined.Add flour, baking soda and salt. Beat with the mixer until dry ingredients are fully combined. Slowly stir in the chocolate chips. If you don’t have mini chips, just roughly chop regular-sized chips before they go in.Lightly grease 2 mini muffin pans. Add a large tablespoonful of dough to each muffin mold. Using your fingers, roughly shape the dough into the muffin mold.Bake at 350ºF for 9–10 minutes, until dough is fully cooked. Take the pans out of the oven. Using the back of a spoon, push the cookies down to form the bowl shape. Work quickly as the cookies are easiest to mold when they are hot.Let the cookies cool in the pan 5–10 minutes. Once the pan is cool enough to touch, pop each cookie mold out and then place back in the mold. Place both pans in the freezer for about 15 minutes.Take the pans out of the freezer and add a large spoonful of ice cream to each cookie bowl. Gently push the ice cream into the bowl. Place each bowl back in the muffin pan and freeze for an additional 15 minutes.Once the cookies and ice cream is fully frozen, take them out of the mold and drizzle with sundae syrup. Enjoy!

Chocolate Sheet Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
2 cups Cake Flour
1/2 cups Cocoa Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
3 Large Eggs
1-1/4 Brown Sugar
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
3/4 cups Greek Yoghurt
FOR THE FROSTING:
1 cup Unsalted Butter, Softened
4 cups Icing/Powdered Sugar
1/2 cups Cocoa Powder
4 Tablespoons Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
Sprinkles, For Garnish (optional)

For the cake: Preheat oven to 180ºC (350ºF or Gas 4). Grease a 13×9-inch pan, and set aside.Whisk together flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and cinnamon. Set aside.Whisk eggs. Add sugar and whisk until combined. Add vanilla extract, butter, and yoghurt and whisk until combined. Gradually fold in dry ingredients.Pour te batter into the prepared pan and spread out evenly. Bake for 18–20 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the centre comes out clean. Allow to cool completely in the pan on a wire rack.For the frosting: Using a handheld or stand mixer, beat butter and icing sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in cocoa powder, milk and vanilla until smooth, and spreadable. Add more milk if needed.Spread the frosting evenly over the cooled cake (leaving about 1/2 to 1 cup for piping). Transfer the remaining frosting to a piping bag and pipe swirls on each slice of cake. Garnish with sprinkles.

Melon Mousse
1-1/2 teaspoon Powdered Gelatin
1/8 cups Cold Water
1 cup Melon Puree
1/4 cups Sugar
2 teaspoons Lemon Juice
1/2 cups Cold Cream
1/4 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
Fresh Mint For Garnish

Place gelatin and cold water in a small bowl to soften.Place melon puree in a medium saucepan with sugar and lemon juice and heat on low until the sugar dissolves. Add softened gelatin to the mixture on the stove, heat, and stir until gelatin dissolves. Remove from heat and chill mixture in fridge until it thickens.Whip cream in a large mixing bowl to soft peaks. Add vanilla to melon mixture and then fold whipped cream until all the lumps are removed.Pour into individual serving glasses and chill in the fridge until set, at least 45 minutes. Garnish with mint and enjoy this last taste of summer.Note: Repeat two times with different types of melon if you’d like to achieve a layered dessert effect. Prepare each mousse, chilling between each layer, to produce a firm set so the lines will be well-defined.

Vegan Almond Flour Cookie Tarts
2 teaspoons Coconut Oil, Melted
2 cups Almond Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/3 cups Maple Syrup
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
Pinch Of Salt
1 Tablespoon Currants
40 Raw, Unblanched Almonds

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Liberally brush 8 mini nonstick tart pans (measuring 3½ inches in diameter) with melted coconut oil and place them, evenly spaced, on a baking sheet.In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, combine almond flour, baking powder, maple syrup, vanilla extract, and salt. Mix on medium speed for 1 minute until a sticky dough forms.Pinch off 1 ½ ounce pieces of dough and roll into balls roughly the same size as a golf balls. Press the dough balls evenly into the mini tart pans. (Wet your fingers with water to prevent sticking or, alternatively, cover the flat bottom of a glass with plastic wrap and use this to flatten.) Press some currants into the centers of each tart pan to form small circles and surround each circle with 5 almonds, pressing them into the dough with the tips facing in.Bake on the bottom rack of the oven for 12–14 minutes until edges have turned golden brown. Let cool completely before removing from the tart pans. (Use the tip of a spoon or knife to ease the cookies out of the tart pans. If you greased the pans well, the cookies will pop right out.)

Salty Sweet Pretzel Butterscotch Cookies
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Salt
2 sticks Unsalted Butter, Heated To Room Temperature
1-1/2 cup Lightly Packed Brown Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 whole Eggs
1 cup Chopped Pretzel Twists, Plus More To Top Cookies
1 cup Chocolate Chips
1/2 cups Butterscotch Chips

In a bowl combine flour, baking soda and salt. Mix to combine and set aside.In the bowl of a standing mixer, beat butter, brown sugar and vanilla extract until creamy. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Slowly add flour mixture to the bowl and mix just until combined. Add remaining ingredients to the bowl and stir just until combined.Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and set oven to 350ºF. Scoop dough into 1 to 2 tablespoon-sized balls on the baking sheet, leaving 2 inches between each cookie. Top each dough mound with one whole pretzel and additional chocolate chips or butterscotch chips if desired. Place in the oven and bake for 10–12 minutes or until edges are lightly golden brown.Chill dough between batches to keep cool. Once cookies are done, remove to a wire rack to cool. After 2 minutes, sprinkle each cookie with a little coarse salt if desired. Store in an airtight container.Note: To make your cookies look like mine, add a few chocolate and butterscotch chips to the top of each cookie before placing in the oven.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Sprinkle S’more Dips
1 cup Chocolate Chips
12 whole Graham Crackers
1 cup Marshmallows
1 cup Sprinkles

Lay out a sheet of parchment paper on a baking sheet.In a medium bowl, melt chocolate chips. Dip each piece of graham cracker into the chocolate and lay on the parchment paper. Decorate with marshmallows and sprinkles.Place the baking sheet in the freezer for approximately 2 hours to harden. Enjoy!

Green Apple Breakfast Nachos
2 Tablespoons Melted Coconut Oil (measure After Melting)
2 Tablespoons Cocoa Unsweetened Powder
1 teaspoon Agave Nectar (optional)
2 Tablespoons Almond Butter
2 Granny Smith Apples, Sliced Or Cored And Cut Into Rounds
1 dash Sliced Almonds As An Optional Garnish

Combine melted coconut oil, cocoa powder, and agave nectar (if using) in small dish. Pour mixture into a small plastic bag and seal tightly. (Try pouring directly into one corner of the bag. If that doesn’t work, pour it into the bag, seal it, and then tilt the bag, letting the chocolate mixture pool in one corner.)Put almond butter in a separate bag using the same technique used for the chocolate.Slice or cut apples into desired shape and spread out on a plate. Trim corner of almond butter bag and drizzle haphazardly across the apples. Trim the corner of the chocolate bag and drizzle in the same haphazard fashion.Garnish with almond slices, if desired. Serve immediately.Note: I like my chocolate a little bitter when I pair it with something a little sweet. You may want to add a little extra agave nectar (or honey, for a paleo option) to make your chocolate sweeter. Additionally, you can add a little cinnamon and/or a dash of vanilla extract to your chocolate, too.

Vegan Mug Cake with Lemon Macaroons
Coconut Oil, For Coating Mugs
7 Tablespoons Almond Flour
1 Tablespoon Coconut Flour
1 pinch Salt
1 Tablespoon Water
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 Tablespoon Barney Butter Raw + Chia Almond Butter (The Whole Snack Packet From Your Box)
1/4 cups Unsweetened Apple Sauce
1 Tablespoon Agave
1 teaspoon Raw Vanilla Extract
3 Emmy's Organics Lemon Ginger Macaroons, Divided

Rub two 8-ounce mugs with coconut oil.In a medium bowl, stir together almond flour, coconut flour and a pinch of salt.In a separate small bowl, whisk together water, lemon juice and baking powder until frothy. Add almond butter, apple sauce, agave and vanilla and whisk until smooth and combined. Stir into the flour mixture until well combined.Crumble up 2 of the macaroons and gently fold them into the batter. Divide the batter evenly between mugs and gently smooth out evenly.Microwave for 2 minutes at full power, or until cake feels set and begins to just pull away from the sides of the mug. Note that it won’t rise a ton as there are no eggs.Crumble remaining macaroon up and divide between the mugs. Devour.Note: All microwaves are different, which can yield different results and can overcook or undercook this mug cake if you aren’t careful. My microwave is 950 watts and I cooked mine on 100% power for 2 minutes, as stated in the recipe. Knowing this information, it may help you better judge how long to cook yours for and at what power!

Homemade Vanilla Ice Cream
1 Vanilla Pod
450 milliliters Double Cream
150 milliliters Condensed Sweetened Milk
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract

Remove the vanilla seeds from the pod by slicing the pod in half down its length and using the back of a knife to scrape down the inside of the pod to release the seeds.Place the cream, condensed milk, vanilla seeds and vanilla into the bowl of a mixing machine and use the whisk tool to thicken. Whisk on high for around 3–5 minutes (longer if whisking by hand). Keep a close eye on the whisking process as over-whipping the mixture will cause it to split. As soon as the mixture starts to thicken, reduce the speed and stop as soon as soft peaks begin to form (cream is thick but just about pourable).Once the ice cream is made, transfer into a freezable container (I used metal loaf tins) and seal with a lid or double wrap with cling film. Freeze for at least 4 hours before scooping.

Banana Split Ice Cream Cake
FOR THE OREO CRUST:
1-1/2 cup Oreo Cookie Crumbs
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
FOR THE CHOCOLATE GANACHE:
7 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate, Cut Into Small Chunks
2/3 cups Heavy Cream
1 Tablespoon Corn Syrup
FOR THE WHIPPED CREAM:
2 cups Whipping Cream
1/4 cups Powdered Sugar
FOR THE FILLING:
2 Bananas, Sliced
2 cups Strawberry Ice Cream
2 cups Vanilla Ice Cream
10 Maraschino Cherries
1 Tablespoon Sprinkles

Lightly grease a 7-inch springform pan. Line the bottom and sides with parchment paper.To prepare crust, mix Oreo cookies crumbs and melted butter in a small bowl, until a moist yet crumbly mixture forms. Firmly press the mixture into the bottom of the pan.To prepare ganache, place chocolate, heavy cream and corn syrup in a medium heatproof bowl over a pot of simmering water. Stir the mixture using a wooden spoon until melted and smooth, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat and let cool slightly.To prepare whipped cream, combine the whipping cream and powdered sugar in the bowl of a standing mixer. Using the whisk attachment, whip on medium-high speed until the cream holds firm peaks. Keep it chill in the refrigerator.To assemble, place banana slices on the crust. Use an offset spatula to spread the strawberry ice cream on top of the banana slices. Pour half of the ganache over the strawberry ice cream. Place the pan in the freezer for 15 minutes. Top with vanilla ice cream, followed by half of the whipped cream. Cover the cake with plastic wrap. Return it to the freezer and freeze overnight.To release the cake from the pan, invert the cake onto a plate and wrap a hot kitchen towel around the cake pan for 20 seconds. Loosen the ring of the springform pan. Remove the parchment papers. Top with a serving plate and turn the cake right side up.Pour the remaining ganache over the cake. Use a spatula to quickly push the ganache over the edges of the cake and let it drip down to create the drip effect.Use a large star tip to pipe a decorative border with the reserved whipped cream along the top edge of the cake. Place cherries on top and garnish with sprinkles.

Creamy Nutella Buttercream Frosting
1 cup Unsalted Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
4 ounces, fluid Cream Cheese, Softened To Room Temperature
3/4 cups Nutella
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
3-1/2 cups Confectioners Sugar

Cream butter and cream cheese together in a large bowl using an electronic hand mixer or a stand mixer. Beat on medium for 2–3 minutes until smooth and creamy.Add Nutella and vanilla extract and continue to beat.Gradually add in confectioners sugar and continue to beat until light and fluffy. If frosting is too thick, add some milk or cream. If it is too think, add some more confectioners sugar.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Zucchini Chocolate Chip Cookies
1/2 cups Butter, Softened
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Light Brown Sugar
1 whole Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1-1/2 cup Zucchini, Shredded
1 cup Old Fashioned Oats
1 cup Chopped Walnuts Or Almonds
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 cup Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Add butter to a stand mixer with paddle attachment. Cream for 2–3 minutes until light and fluffy. Add both sugars and cream for another 2–3 minutes. Add the egg and vanilla and mix until incorporated. Make sure to scrape the sides of the bowl. Add in zucchini and mix until combined. Fold in oats and walnuts.In a medium bowl, combine flour, cinnamon and baking soda. Fold the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients in two parts. Fold just until combined; do not over-mix. Fold in the chocolate chips.Drop by rounded tablespoons and space 2 inches apart on a baking sheet lined with a silicone baking mat or parchment paper. Bake for 10 minutes. The cookies should be slightly golden brown.Allow cookies to cool for 2–3 minutes on the baking sheet then transfer them to a wire rack to cool completely. Store in an airtight container to keep them fresh and moist.

Espresso Macarons
FOR THE MACARON SHELLS:
1 cup Powdered Sugar
3/4 cups Almond Flour
1 Tablespoon Espresso Powder
2 Egg Whites
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE ESPRESSO BUTTERCREAM:
1 stick Unsalted Butter, Softened
1 cup Powdered Sugar
1 Tablespoon Espresso Powder
1 Tablespoon Milk

To prepare macarons, line two large baking sheets with parchment paper. Put a master template under the parchment paper or draw about 12 1 1/2-inch circles in rows on the paper, about 1 inch apart.Process powdered sugar, almond flour and espresso powder in a food processor until finely ground. Sift the mixture through a sieve. If there are more than 2 tablespoons of large chunks left in the sieve, grind them and sift again. Set the mixture aside.In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment, beat egg whites at medium speed until frothy. Reduce the speed to low and gradually add the granulated sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time. Add vanilla. Increase the speed to high and beat until very stiff peaks form, about 5 minutes.Sift the almond flour mixture over the egg whites. Using a rubber spatula, gently fold the almond flour mixture into the egg whites until the ingredients are just combined. Continue to fold the mixture until it has loosened and falls in a ribbon from the spatula.Fit a pastry bag with a 1/2-inch round tip and fill the bag with the batter. Using the template as a guide, pipe circles onto the parchment papers. Tap the bottom of each sheet on the work surface to release trapped air bubbles. Let the cookies stand at room temperature for at least 30 minutes. This allows the cookies to develop their crusts.Preheat oven to 300ºF. Bake the macarons for 10–12 minutes, until set but not browned. Transfer the baking sheets to wire racks and let the macarons to cool completely on the pans. Once cooled, gently lift half of the cookies from the parchment paper and turn them upside down.To prepare buttercream, beat butter on high until fluffy. Add powdered sugar and espresso powder and beat until incorporated. Add milk, continue beating for another 3 minutes.Spoon or pipe a teaspoon of buttercream onto each of the upside-down cookies. Top with the remaining cookies.Cover and refrigerate. Bring to room temperature before serving.

Molten Lava Cake
4 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate
2/3 cups Unsalted Butter
4 whole Eggs
2/3 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups All-purpose Flour

Grease 6 ramekins, and line with a disk of parchment at the bottom.Melt chocolate and butter in a medium heat-proof bowl set over a pot of barely simmering water. Stir until melted and smooth. Let cool for 15 minutes.Beat eggs and sugar with a handheld electric mixer until thick, pale and ribbony. Beat in flour. Then slowly add chocolate mixture while beating.Evenly distribute the batter into the ramekins and chill.When ready to serve, preheat oven to 400ºF. Bake cake until top is set, around 15 minutes. Remove from oven. Let sit for 5 minutes before inverting onto individual serving plate. Top with vanilla ice cream, berries or caramel sauce.

Fanouropita
3/4 cups Olive Oil
1 cup Sugar
3/4 cups Orange Juice, Freshly Squeezed
1 teaspoon Cinammon
1 teaspoon Ground Clove
1 Tablespoon Baking Powder
3-3/4 cups All-purpose Flour
1/2 cups Walnuts, Roughly Chopped
1/2 cups Raisins, Roughly Chopped

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Place olive oil and sugar in a mixer and beat for about 5 minutes to dissolve the sugar. Add orange juice, cinnamon, clove and baking powder. Add the flour (in 3 additions) and mix. At the end, add walnuts and raisins and mix one more time.Place batter in a 9-inch round or square pan and bake for 45 minutes. Or you can use a bundt cake pan if you like special patterns on your cake like me. (Also, I like busting the big fat Greek wedding myth that somehow Greek people don’t know what a bundt cake is. So I use this cake shape. All. The.Time.)Let the cake cool and remove from the pan. Share with friends or family and have them say a little prayer to St. Fanourios’ mom to help you find your lost things. Watch for things to be revealed in the days to come. Woo-woo.Enjoy.

Pineapple Blueberry Dump Cake
1 can (20 Oz. Size) Crushed Pineapple With Juice
1 can (21 Oz. Size) Blueberry Pie Filling
1 box (15 1/4 Oz. Size) Yellow Cake Mix
1 cup Chopped Pecans
1 stick Butter, Thinly Sliced
Fresh Blueberries, As Needed For Garnish

Preheat oven to 350ºF and grease a 9 x 13 baking dish well with shortening.Spread crushed pineapple out in an even bottom layer in the pan, followed by an even layer of the blueberry pie filling. Spread yellow cake mix evenly on top of the blueberry, followed by the pecans on top of the cake mix. Lastly, distribute the butter slices evenly on the very top.Bake the dump cake for about 50 minutes for everything to meld together and get slightly golden on top. Let it cool for about 10–15 minutes, then scoop it out onto plates and serve immediately with fresh blueberries on top!

Double Chocolate Chip Ice Cream
6 ounces, weight Semi-sweet Chocolate, Divided
2 cups Heavy Cream
1 cup Whole Milk
1/4 cups Cocoa Powder
1 teaspoon Instant Espresso Powder
1 dash Salt
6 whole Egg Yolks
2/3 cups Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract

Finely chop 3 ounces of the chocolate and place into a large bowl. Place a sieve over the bowl and set aside.Combine cream, milk, cocoa, espresso and salt in a medium saucepan. Warm over medium heat until the mixture comes to a slight simmer.Meanwhile, beat egg yolks and sugar until pale and creamy, about 3–5 minutes. Temper eggs by slowly pouring about a ½ cup of the cream mixture into the egg mixture, while constantly whisking. Pour the tempered egg mixture into the pot, while vigorously whisking. Continue to whisk, scraping down the sides of the pan, for about 3–5 minutes or until custard is thick enough to coat the back of a spoon. Stir in vanilla.Pour ice cream base over the bowl of chopped chocolate through the sieve to remove any lumps. Whisk in chocolate to melt and incorporate. Cool at room temperature. Cover with plastic wrap touching the surface to avoid forming a skin. Chill in fridge at least 4–6 hours or up to 24 hours.Chop the remaining chocolate into small chunks. Freeze the ice cream base using a machine according to the manufacturer’s instructions. When it’s about ¾ of the way frozen, add chopped chocolate and continue to churn until done. Transfer to the freezer to freeze completely. For easier scooping, allow to come to room temperature for about 10 minutes before serving. Enjoy.Makes about 1 quart.

No-Churn Ice Cream
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Paste (or Extract)
10 Sandwich Cream Cookies, Crushed
2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream

Place a 6-cup container into the freezer.In a large bowl, mix to combine sweetened condensed milk, vanilla paste, and crushed sandwich cookies. Set aside.In another large bowl, use a hand mixer to whip the cream to stiff peaks, taking care not to over-whip the cream.Fold about 1 cup of the whipped cream into the sweetened condensed milk mixture, to lighten, then fold in the remaining whipped cream. Get the container from the freezer and quickly transfer the ice cream mixture to the container. Freeze for 4–5 hours, until firm. Then scoop, serve, and enjoy!Recipe note: Nearly all no-churn ice cream recipes call for a ratio of one 14-ounce can sweetened condensed milk to 2 cups heavy cream. I have tweaked this amount in both directions and have found this amount to be just right, and then you don’t have any partial cans used!

No-Bake Chocolate Peanut Butter Pie Bars
FOR THE CHOCOLATE CRUST:
30 Regular Oreo Cookies
5 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, melted
FOR THE PEANUT BUTTER FILLING:
2 cups Creamy Peanut Butter
16 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened And At Room Temperature
2 cups Powdered Sugar
1 Tablespoon Pure Vanilla Extract
1/8 teaspoons Kosher Salt
12 ounces, weight Whipped Topping (Such As Cool Whip), Thawed
FOR THE TOPPINGS (optional):
1 cup Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
2 Tablespoons Creamy Peanut Butter
1/2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream
Oreo Cookies, Quartered
Mini Peanut Butter Cups, Halved

For the chocolate crust: Line a 13 x 9 inch pan with foil, with ends of foil extending over the two long pan sides. In a food processor, pulse Oreos (whole, do not remove the filling) until finely ground. Drizzle in melted butter and blitz a few more times to evenly combine. Press onto bottom of prepared pan. Place pan in freezer for 10 minutes while preparing the filling.For the peanut butter filling: In a large bowl, beat peanut butter and cream cheese until smooth. Add powdered sugar, vanilla, and salt, and beat until smooth. With a rubber spatula, fold in whipped topping until completely combined. Spread filling evenly onto the top of the chilled chocolate crust. Chill for at least a couple hours or overnight.For the toppings (optional): Add chocolate chips and peanut butter to a small to medium-sized heat-proof bowl. In a saucepan over medium to medium-high heat, bring cream to a rolling simmer. Pour cream over the chocolate chips and peanut butter and let sit for 5 minutes. Then whisk until mixture is completely smooth. Let cool until mixture is just warm, but still nicely fluid.Use a spoon to drizzle chocolate over individual bars or add chocolate to a plastic baggie, snip off a small piece of the baggie’s corner, and “pipe” chocolate over the bars. Finish by adding a piece of Oreo cookie and a few halved mini peanut butter cups to the top.This dessert keeps very well in the refrigerator for a few days and can easily be made a day before serving. This is a very sweet dessert. The recipe yields 24 large bars, sized for those with bigger sweet tooths, or 35 smaller bars.

Eggless Brownies
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1/3 cups Coconut Flour
1/3 cups Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
2/3 cups Cane Sugar
1/3 cups Brown Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cups Almond Milk
1/2 cups Safflower Seed Oil
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

Preheat oven to 350ºF.In a large bowl, sift together all of the dry ingredients. In a small bowl, whisk together wet ingredients.Add wet ingredients to the dry ingredients. Using your spatula, mix ingredients until just combined. Do not over-mix. This will cause brownies to be tough.Pour batter into greased (using coconut oil or oil of choice) 8 x 8 inch baking dish. Bake for 25 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the middle comes out clean.

Nutella Fudge
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
8 ounces, weight Unsweetened Chocolate Chips
1 cup Nutella
3 Tablespoons Butter, Softened
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 Tablespoon Vanilla
3/4 cups Chopped Pistachios, Divided
1 teaspoon Sea Salt For Topping
1/4 cups Cranberries, Dried

Line an 8×8 baking dish with parchment paperOver a double boiler, melt condensed milk, chocolate chips, Nutella, butter and 1/2 teaspoon salt. Moving quickly, add 1/2 cup pistachios (reserve remaining 1/4 cup for topping). Mix and pour into baking dish. Sprinkle with sea salt, cranberries and remaining pistachios, gently pressing into the surface.Chill for 1–2 hours and cut into desired size.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Tropical Paleo Lemon Bars
FOR THE CRUST:
3 Tablespoons Macadamia Nuts, Finely Chopped
1/4 cups Honey
1/2 cups Coconut Oil, At Room Temperature (it Should Be The Consistency Of Soft Butter)
1 pinch Salt
1 cup Coconut Flour, Sifted (95g)
FOR THE TOPPING:
3 Eggs
1/2 cups Honey
2 teaspoons Lime Zest, Firmly Packed
1/4 cups Fresh Lemon Juice
1/4 cups Fresh Lime Juice
2 teaspoons Coconut Flour, Sifted

Preheat oven to 350ºF and generously rub an 8×8 inch pan with coconut oil. Set aside.Place the macadamia pieces onto a small baking sheet and place into the oven until golden brown and nutty smelling, just a few minutes. Watch them closely so they don’t burn.In a large bowl, using an electric hand mixer, beat together honey, coconut oil and pinch of salt until creamy and well combined. Stir in coconut flour until a dough forms.Press the dough evenly into the prepared pan and the sprinkle evenly with toasted macadamia pieces, gently pressing into the crust. Bake until just lightly golden brown, about 8 minutes (see note below). Once cooked, let cool for 30 minutes.Lower temperature of oven to 325ºF and lower the oven rack to the second from the bottom position.Once the crust has cooled, gently whisk together eggs, honey and lime zest in a large bowl. Do not use an electric mixer here or you will over-beat the eggs and the topping with crack once baked. Use a hand whisk.In a separate, medium bowl, whisk together lemon and lime juice. Then whisk in coconut flour, 1 teaspoon at a time, until well mixed. Make sure you continually whisk as you add the flour so that it doesn’t clump up.Pour the lemon/lime juice mixture into the egg mixture, whisking while you pour, until evenly combined. Pour the topping over top of the cooled crust and bake until it is just set, and the very center is just slightly jiggly, about 21–23 minutes. Let cool completely at room temperature. Then cover and refrigerate for at least 6 hours, best overnight. You need to let the crust completely cool, or it will be soft.Using a very sharp knife (or else you might not cut through the crust), cut the bars into squares and devour.Notes Please weigh your flour after sifting in order to make sure these turn out. Gluten-free baking is tricky, and accurate measurements are key. Do not use lemon juice from a bottle, it tastes completely different than fresh. I tried it. Not good. Make sure you don’t over-bake it. I did once, and it completely makes the lemon layer bake funny, and makes it almost disappear. You want it to be golden brown on the edges and very light brown on the inside. I have had a few readers struggle with this recipe, but I have made in many, many times with great results. Please make sure to follow the directions as written. Store bars in the refrigerator until ready to serve. The first bar is a little difficult to get out, so be gentle! But, once one is out, it’s smooth sailing!

Caramel Marshmallow Rice Krispie Pops
1/2 cups Butter (not Margarine)
1-1/2 cup Brown Sugar
1/2 cups Whipping (heavy) Cream
34 whole Marshmallows
5 cups Crisp Rice Cereal
1/2 cups Milk Or Dark Chocolate Melting Wafers
1/2 cups White Chocolate Melting Wafers

Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and set it aside.Over medium-high heat, melt butter and brown sugar. Whisk together to combine. Bring mixture to a boil and boil for 2 minutes. While constantly whisking, pour cream in a steady stream. Return te caramel to a boil and boil for 2–3 minutes or until it coats the back of a spoon. Remove the pot from the heat and let it cool for 2 minutes to thicken slightly.Insert a lollipop stick into each marshmallow. Dip marshmallow into the caramel and swirl to coat on all sides. Let any excess drip off pack into the pot. Immediately roll the caramel-covered marshmallow in the rice cereal. Place the marshmallows on the parchment-lined baking sheet. Once completed, refrigerate marshmallow pops for 30 minutes.Add milk/dark chocolate to a microwave safe dish. Microwave on high in 30-second intervals, stirring between each, until chocolate is melted. Drizzle chocolate over each marshmallow pop. Repeat with the white chocolate.

Date, Almond and Coconut Bites
250 grams Pitted Dates
30 grams Desiccated Coconut
30 grams Ground Almonds
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Golden Syrup
Cacao Powder Or Matcha Powder, For Dusting

Place dates in a blender and blitz for a couple of minutes. Place dates into a bowl and add all other ingredients. Mix together well. The stickiness from the blitzed dates and syrup will help the mixture to combine. Ensure all the ingredients are spread evenly throughout the mixture.Begin to create balls from the mixture. Take a small amount and shape using your palms.Place each ball on a tray to firm up. Finish each ball with a dusting of cacao powder or matcha powder. Chill if desired and eat as you please.

Homemade Cardamom and Black Treacle Ice Cream
450 milliliters Double Cream
150 milliliters Condensed Sweetened Milk
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
5 Cardamom Pods
2 Tablespoons Black Treacle

For the ice cream base: Place cream, condensed milk and vanilla extract into the bowl of a mixing machine and use the whisk tool to thicken. Whisk on high for around 3–5 minutes (longer if whisking by hand). Keep a close eye on the whisking process as over-whipping the mixture will cause it to split. As soon as the mixture starts to thicken, reduce the speed and stop as soon as soft peaks begin to form (cream is thick but just about pourable).For the cardamom and black treacle ice cream: Crush the cardamom pods by placing the flat of a knife over them and pushing down with your hand. This should split the pod and release the seeds inside. Discard the outer pod and gather together the seeds. Crush the seeds into coarse powder using a knife or mortar and pestle.Once cream and milk have been whisked, add the powdered cardamom seeds and treacle. Fold in gently. You may wish to add the treacle gradually to prevent it from clumping in one place.Once the ice cream is made, transfer into a freezable container (I used metal loaf tins) and seal with a lid or double wrap with cling film. Freeze for at least 4 hours before scooping.

Cheesecake Swirl Pumpkin Bundt Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
3 cups Cake Flour
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Ground Ginger
1/4 teaspoons Ground Nutmeg
4 Large Eggs
1 cup Sugar
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
1 cup Unsalted Butter, melted
1 cup Greek-Style Yoghurt
1 can (15 Oz. Size) Pumpkin Puree
FOR THE CHEESECAKE:
1 cup Cream Cheese, Softened
1/4 cups Sugar
1 Large Egg
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
2 Tablespoons Plain Flour
FOR THE FROSTING:
2 cups Icing Sugar
1/4 cups Cream Cheese, Softened
4 Tablespoons Heavy Cream
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

For the cake: Preheat oven to 180ºC (350ºF or Gas 4). Grease a 10-inch bundt pan, and set aside.Whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg. Set aside.Whisk eggs. Add sugars and whisk until combined. Add melted butter, yoghurt, and pumpkin and whisk until combined. Fold in the dry ingredients.Pour half of the batter into the prepared pan.For the filling: Using a handheld or stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat cream cheese and sugar until combined. Beat in egg and vanilla, then fold in the flour.Spread the cheesecake mixture evenly over the cake batter, then pour the remaining cake batter on top. Bake for about 60 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the centre comes out clean with moist crumbs. Let cool in the pan for 10 minutes before inverting the cake onto a wire rack or serving plate to cool completely.For the frosting: Whisk together icing sugar, cream cheese, heavy cream, and vanilla extract until smooth, fairly thick and pourable. Add more heavy cream if needed. Pour over the cooled cake (or pipe it on using a piping bag), then slice and serve.

Oreo White Chocolate Ice Cream
7 ounces, weight Regular Oreo Cookies
21 ounces, weight Heavy Cream, Divided
7 ounces, weight White Chocolate Coating, Chopped
2-1/2 ounces, weight Sugar
2 Tablespoons Vanilla Liqueur
5 Egg Yolks

Open Oreos to scrape out the white cream of the cookies. Pour the cream of the Oreos into a double boiler. Add ½ cup of heavy cream and white chocolate coating chunks. Over hot but not boiling water, melt chocolate and cookie cream while stirring with a whisk. It’s done when you have a liquid mass without any lumps.Place cookies in a resealable baggie and crush with a rolling pin.In a separate bowl, pour sugar, liqueur and egg yolks. With an electric mixer, beat until foamy and sugar is dissolved. Add cooled cream in a thin stream, and mix.In another bowl, whip remaining heavy cream until stiff. Add whipped cream to the chocolate mixture and fold it in (I did this with the mixer).Pour half of the ice cream base into a dish and spread half of the cookie crumbson top. Freeze for 30 minutes. When slightly frozen, pour the rest of the ice cream base onto the cookie layer and spread the rest of the cookie crumbs on top. Freeze for at least 4 hours.

Peanut Butter and Chocolate Biscuit Squares
FOR THE BASE:
250 grams Digestive Biscuits
125 grams Melted Unsalted Butter
FOR THE FILLING:
300 grams Smooth Peanut Butter
100 grams Syrup
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE CHOCOLATE:
200 grams Milk Chocolate Chips
20 grams Soft Unsalted Butter

Place digestives in a plastic bag, remove all the air and tie a knot in the top. Crush into crumbs by gently hitting with a rolling pin. Alternatively, you can break down the biscuits in a food processor.In a bowl, stir the melted butter into the crushed digestives.Transfer biscuit mix to a lined or greased square baking tin (9 x 9 inches). Use a spatula to press down the biscuits, making sure the crumbs reach into all the corners and are evenly spread across the base of the tin. Place the tin in the fridge for 20 minutes in order to set the biscuit base.Whilst the base is in the fridge, prepare the peanut filling by mixing together the peanut butter, syrup and vanilla extract.After 20 minutes, remove the tin from the fridge. Carefully spread the peanut filling over the biscuit. Use a spatula or cake slice to get an even finish. Return to the fridge for another 20 minutes.Prepare the chocolate by setting up a bain-marie. Pour 1 cm of water into a large pan and bring to the boil. Balance a large heat proof bowl over the top of the pan; do not let the water touch the base of the bowl. Add chocolate and soft butter to the bowl and let it gradually melt. You shouldn’t need to touch the bowl until the chocolate is completely melted. However, be careful of the steam when you do remove the bowl from the pan. (Alternatively, you can melt the chocolate and butter in the microwave. Heat for 20 seconds at a time, then check and stir. Repeat until fully melted.)Once the chocolate is melted, set to one side to cool slightly. Remove the tin from the fridge and pour the slightly cooled chocolate over the peanut layer. Spread evenly again using the spatula. Finish off by dragging the spatula lightly across the top of the chocolate in lines from left to right. This will create a ripple effect as it sets.Leave to set in a cool dry place or, if you can’t wait that long, return once again to the fridge. However, leaving it to set out of the fridge will help the chocolate to retain its shine and colour.Check to see if the chocolate is set before turning out of the tin and slicing into squares. Enjoy!

Best Ever Peach Crisp
FOR THE PEACHES:
4 Peaches Sliced
2 Tablespoons Sugar
1/8 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 pinch Nutmeg
1 pinch Salt
FOR THE CRUMBLE:
2 cups Corn Flakes (gently Crushed)
1/3 cups Butter, Softened
1/4 cups Brown Sugar
2 Tablespoons Flour

Preheat oven to 350ºF.In an 8×8 baking dish, mix peaches with sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg and salt.In a medium bowl, mix together corn flakes, butter, brown sugar and flour using a fork. It will begin to look like a crumble. Once everything is mixed together, place on top of peach mixture and gently press down with a fork to fill any holes.Bake 15–20 minutes until top is golden brown. Serve with vanilla bean ice cream and enjoy!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Sugar-Free Blueberry Cheesecake Ice Cream with Lavender
3 cups Blueberries
1/3 cups Honey
2 teaspoons Ground Lavender
1/2 ounces, weight Mascarpone Cheese
1 cup Heavy Cream

Blend blueberries, honey, lavender and mascarpone cheese in a food processor. Whip the cream and stir it gently into the blueberry mascarpone mixture. Transfer into a bowl of your ice cream maker and start churning (make sure you freeze the bowl of your ice cream maker for at least 8 hours in advance or according to manufacturer’s instructions).After 30 minutes of churning, check your ice cream every couple of minutes to see if it’s ready. It should be thick but not firm. Transfer the ice cream into a container and freeze for about 2 hours. If you are not using an ice cream maker, put your ice cream in the freezer and pulse it in the food processor every 20–30 minutes for 3–4 hours. Enjoy!

Rum and Raisin Ice Cream
450 milliliters Double Cream
150 milliliters Condensed Sweetened Milk
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
125 grams Raisins
5 Tablespoons Dark Rum
1 teaspoon Cinnamon Powder

For the ice cream base: Place cream, condensed milk and vanilla extract into the bowl of a mixing machine and use the whisk tool to thicken. Whisk on high for around 3–5 minutes (longer if whisking by hand). Keep a close eye on the whisking process as over-whipping the mixture will cause it to split. As soon as the mixture starts to thicken, reduce the speed and stop as soon as soft peaks begin to form (cream is thick but just about pour-able).For the rum and raisin ice cream: Place the raisins in a bowl and pour over the rum. Cover with cling film and place in the fridge to soak for at least 30 minutes. Once the cream and milk has been whipped, add the cinnamon and soaked raisins (pour in all the rum) then fold in gently.Once the ice cream is made, transfer into a freezable container (I used metal loaf tins) and seal with a lid or double wrap with plastic. Freeze for at least 4 hours before scooping.

Homemade Peanut Butter & Jelly Oreos
FOR THE SHORTBREAD:
1/2 cups Butter
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1 cup All-purpose Flour
FOR THE FROSTING:
1/2 cups Butter
1/2 cups Peanut Butter
1-1/2 cup Powdered Sugar
1/4 cups Heavy Cream
1/3 cups Strawberry Jam

In the bowl of a mixer, beat butter until it begins to turn light yellow. Add sugar and beat until well-combined. Half a cup at a time, add sifted flour to the creamed butter and sugar. The mixture will become like coarse meal and will stick together when you press it. Roll into a log about the diameter of a half-dollar, cover in plastic wrap, and refrigerate 1 hour or more until solid.Slice chilled dough into 1/4-inch slices, shape into rounds, and adorn or mark them in anyway you’d like. Chill again until cold. Bake at 325ºF for 12–15 minutes depending on the size of the cookies. The edges should just turn slightly brown. Cool completely before frosting.Cream butter and peanut butter until light in color and smooth. Add powdered sugar gradually, then add cream to get a spreadable but stiff consistency. Add salt and whip for another minute. Keep this in the fridge until cookies have cooled and you’re ready to frost.To assemble the cookies, apply a liberal amount of frosting, a dollop of jam, and top with another cookie. Press together lightly and pop immediately into your mouth. Peanut butter and jelly Oreos, where have you been all my life!

Strawberry Banana Frozen Yogurt
700 grams Frozen Strawberries
2 Ripe Bananas (peeled And Sliced)
150 milliliters Greek Yogurt
2 teaspoons Honey

Let the strawberries thaw a bit (especially if your processor is not powerful enough) before pureeing them in the food processor. Throw in bananas. Add yogurt and process until smooth.Taste it! You might want to add a few tablespoons of honey if your strawberries are not sweet enough. Mix it, and once happy with its taste, transfer into a plastic container. Cover with lid and freeze.After 1 1/2 hours, take the container out of the freezer. Mix the mixture with a spoon to break up the ice crystals. You might wanna do this at least 3 times (every 1 1/2 hours).If you want your frozen yogurt to be frozen completely, leave it in the fridge overnight. If not, then check several times and serve whenever you are happy with its consistency.

Fruit Pizza Cookies
FOR THE COOKIES:
1 cup Butter, Room Temperature
1-1/2 cup Sugar
2 Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla
3 cups Flour
2 teaspoons Cream Of Tartar
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE FROSTING:
Fruit And Berries Of Your Choice (I Used Kiwi, Blueberries, And Strawberries), For Garnish
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Room Temperature
1/2 cups Butter, Room Temperature
2-1/2 cups Confectioners Sugar
1/8 teaspoons Salt
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1 Tablespoon Milk

For the cookies: Preheat oven to 350ºF.Cream butter and sugar in a large bowl using a mixer. Mix in eggs, one at a time, and vanilla until well combined.In a medium bowl, combine flour, cream of tartar, baking soda, and salt. Add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients and combine (I used the mixer but you can do this by hand). Cover and chill the cookie dough in the refrigerator for at least 20–30 minutes.Once chilled, roll out the dough to 1/4-inch thickness on a well floured surface and use a cookie cutter (or a mason jar works!) to cut out circles. I made about 36 cookies using a 2 1/2-inch diameter cookie cutter and about 28 using a 3-inch cutter. Keep in mind they will spread, so they will end up slightly bigger than what you cut out.Place cookies on a parchment lined baking sheet with plenty of space between the cookies (I only put 5 per sheet for the 3-inch cookies). Bake for 8–11 minutes (smaller cookies require the low baking time and large require the longer time) or until the edges are just starting to get golden brown. Remove from the oven and let cool on tray for 1–2 minutes before moving them to a wire cooling rack to cool completely.For the frosting: To prepare the fruit, cut into desired sizes/shapes and place on a paper towel. Pat dry using paper towels. Let them sit on the paper towel until ready to use to make sure they are very dry.Combine cream cheese, butter, confectioners sugar, salt, and vanilla with a mixer starting on low and moving to medium speed. Once combined, add milk and mix on medium-high for 1–2 minutes.Frost the cookies with the cream cheese frosting and decorate with the fruit.Notes: I use parchment paper between layers when storing the cookies to keep them separated. I would recommend frosting them and adding the fruit not much more than a couple of hours before serving for the best result, as they can become a little soft if they sit for too long.

No-churn Vegan Peanut Butter Chocolate Chip Ice Cream
2 cans (15 Oz. Size) Unsweetened Coconut Cream
1 cup Sugar
1 cup Peanut Butter
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1 teaspoon Kosher Salt
1/2 cups Unsweetened Coconut Milk
3 Tablespoons Cornstarch
1/2 cups Chocolate Chips (I Used Vegan And Soy-free)

In a medium sauce pan over medium heat, combine cream, sugar, peanut butter, vanilla and kosher salt. Whisk over medium heat for about 2–3 minutes until sugar has dissolved into the coconut cream.In a small Tupperware or mason jar, combine coconut milk and corn starch and shake really well. Pour the cornstarch combination into the sauce pan while stirring over medium heat. Continue to cook and stir over medium heat until mixture thickens, about 2–3 minutes. Take the mixture off heat and pour it into a bowl.Let it cool until it is room temperature, and then refrigerate for at least an hour. Then stir in chocolate chips and freeze in a freezer proof container for at least 4 hours. Scoop and serve.

Balsamic Fig Yogurt Popsicles
1 pound Fresh Figs, Trimmed And Halved
1/4 cups Honey
2 Tablespoons Balsamic Vinegar
2-1/2 teaspoons Dark Brown Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 whole Lemon, Zested
1 pinch Salt
1-1/2 cup Plain Greek Yogurt
1/4 cups Almond Milk
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract

Preheat oven to 400ºF and get out an 8 x 8 baking tray. Combine figs, honey, balsamic vinegar, brown sugar, cinnamon, lemon zest and salt in the baking tray and stir it all together well to make sure the figs are coated. Roast the figs for 30 minutes, until completely tender. Take them out and let them cool completely. There will be a thick layer of flavorful juice to go with them!While the figs cool, set up a food processor or blender and combine yogurt, almond milk and vanilla in its bowl. Add figs with all of the juices once they are cooled. Run the processor until it is a thick puree.Fill large popsicle molds to the brim with the mixture and get them into the freezer to set for at least 5 hours. The mixture could also be molded into paper cups with popsicle sticks inserted. Once they are set, enjoy them for a cooling treat!

Lemon Lavender Zeppole
1 stick Butter
1 cup Water
3 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar
1 whole Lemon, Zested
1/2 teaspoons Ground Lavender
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 pinch Salt
1 cup Flour
4 whole Eggs
Canola Oil, As Needed For Frying
1 cup Powdered Sugar For Coating

Combine butter, water, sugar, lemon zest, lavender, cinnamon and salt in a medium saucepan and heat it over medium high heat. Let it come to a gentle boil and cook for a couple of minutes. Take it off heat and stir in flour until it becomes pasty. Put it back on the heat and keep stirring to cook off the flour and bring it into a ball. This will take about 2–3 minutes.Transfer the dough into a large bowl and let it cool for a minute or two so that the eggs won’t scramble when they go in. Then use a hand mixer to beat in the eggs one at a time until you have a sticky, well-mixed dough. At this point, the dough can be covered and refrigerated up to a day to fry up later if desired.When you are ready to fry the dough, pour about 2-3 inches of canola oil into a large stainless steal pan with deep sides. Heat it over medium high heat and use a deep fry thermometer to make sure it stays around 375ºF. Once the oil is hot enough, use a 1 1/2-inch cookie scoop to scoop perfect portions of dough right into the oil in batches. They will take about 5–6 minutes to get puffed up and gorgeously brown on the outside. I did two batches of 7 and one batch of 6 to get 20 zeppole total. When the first batch is done, remove the zeppole with a slotted spoon or spider to a plate lined with paper towel and get the next batch in.While the first batch is draining and cooling enough to handle, pour the powdered sugar into a medium-sized paper bag. Don’t use plastic here since it could slightly melt into the hot zeppole. Put the first batch into the bag, close it tightly and give it a good shake to coat the zeppole. Serve them immediately while they are still hot, and repeat with the next batches. Enjoy this classic boardwalk treat! These are really only good immediately out of the fryer and don’t keep well as leftovers.

Pineapple Cream Cake (No Bake!)
FOR THE BASE:
100 grams Digestive Biscuits (Or Graham Crackers)
100 grams Chocolate Oreo Cookies
100 grams Butter, Melted
FOR THE FILLING:
400 grams Sweetened, Condensed Milk
1/2 cups Lemon Juice
400 grams Crushed Pineapple
1 Tablespoon Gelatin Mixed In 50ml Warm Water (optional)
300 milliliters Whipping Cream
1 dash Yellow Food Coloring (optional)

For the base: Grease an 8-inch baking tin with butter and apply parchment paper.Crush the biscuits and Oreo cookies in a bowl and add melted butter. Mix. Layer the mixture on the base of the baking tin and set aside.For the filling: In a bowl, mix condensed milk and lemon juice. Add crushed pineapples and gelatin, mix well.In a stand mixer with whisk attachment, whip cream and add 1 or 2 drops of yellow food coloring. Whip until stiff peaks are formed.Add the whipped cream to the pineapple mixture. Layer evenly in the baking tin and set in the refrigerator for 3 hours. Enjoy!Notes: You can use use an equal amount of additional digestive biscuits if there you don’t have Oreos. I used Oreos as I was out of digestive biscuits. You can skip gelatin and just let the cake set in the refrigerator overnight.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Strawberries and Cream Swiss Roll
FOR THE STRAWBERRY SAUCE:
1 cup Fresh Strawberries, Sliced
2 Tablespoons Water
1/2 cups Sugar
2 Tablespoons Cornflour
FOR THE CAKE:
4 Large Eggs, Room Temperature, Separated
3/4 cups Sugar
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/4 cups Greek-Style Yoghurt
1 cup Cake Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE FILLING:
1-1/4 cup Heavy Cream
1/2 cups Icing Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
Icing Or Powdered Sugar, For Rolling Cake And Dusting Swiss Roll

For the strawberry sauce: Using a food processor, blend the strawberries and water until smooth. If you want a chunky sauce, simply slice the strawberries into smaller pieces and skip the blending.In a saucepan over medium heat, add strawberry puree (or pieces), sugar and cornflour, and stir constantly until mixture thickens and comes to a boil. Allow to boil for 1 minute, stirring constantly, then remove from the heat. Transfer to a small bowl and allow to cool completely.For the cake: Preheat oven to 180ºC (350ºF or Gas 4). Grease a 10×15-inch cake roll pan, and line the base with parchment paper.Using a handheld or stand mixer, beat egg yolks on high speed until thick and frothy. Gradually beat in the sugar, vanilla, and yogurt. Add flour and baking powder, and mix well.In a separate bowl, beat egg whites and salt until stiff peaks form. Gently fold into the batter.Pour the batter into the prepared pan, and spread out evenly. Bake for 8–10 minutes or until cake pulls away from the sides, and a toothpick inserted in the centre comes out clean. Allow to cool in the pan for 5 minutes.Invert the cake onto a tea towel dusted with a generous amount of icing or powdered sugar. Gently peel off the parchment paper, dust the cake with more icing sugar, then roll up the cake with the tea towel, starting at a short end. Allow to cool completely on a wire rack.For the filling: Using a handheld or stand mixer, whip heavy cream until it starts to thicken. Add icing sugar and vanilla and whip to stiff peaks.Unroll the cake, and spread the strawberry sauce evenly over the cake. Repeat with the whipped cream. (Dollop the cream on top and very gently spread over the jam, trying not to mix the two together.) Re-roll without the tea towel. Cover and chill for at least 1 hour. Dust with icing or powdered sugar, or garnish with strawberries, then slice and serve.

Mixed Fruit Popsicles
2 cups Honeydew, Cubed
1/2 cups Mango, Cubed
1 cup Blackberries
2 Tablespoons Lime Juice
1 teaspoon Lemon Juice
1/2 cans (12 Oz. Size) La Croix Water (I Used Grapefruit Flavor)

Combine all ingredients in the bowl of a food processor and pulse until combined. Pour the mix into a cheesecloth over a bowl. Strain the mix until only the blackberry seeds remain in the cheesecloth.Pour the remaining liquid evenly into the popsicles molds. Freeze for at least 4 hours or overnight.

Arroz con Leche
1 cup Long Grain White Rice
1 stick Mexican Cinnamon
3 cups Water
3 cups Warmed Milk
1/2 cups Sugar
1 Tablespoon Mexican Vanilla
1/2 cups Raisins

In a pot, bring rice, cinnamon, and water to a boil. Turn heat to low. cover and cook for 20 minutes or until water is absorbed.Add warmed milk, sugar, vanilla, and raisins. Stir well. Cover and cook for 20 minutes more.Serve warm or chilled. Refrigerate leftovers.

Homemade Mint Marshmallows
Powdered Sugar, As Needed To Coat The Pan
3/4 cups Cold Water, Divided
1/4 cups Mint Extract
1/4 teaspoons Green Food Coloring
1 ounce, weight Granulated Gelatin
4 whole Egg Whites
2-1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Light Corn Syrup

Take an 8 x 8 baking dish and line it with plastic wrap. Sprinkle a generous layer of powdered sugar on the plastic wrap. Combine 1/2 cup of the cold water, mint extract and food coloring in a big bowl and stir it all together. Then pour the granulated gelatin into the mixture and stir it all again well so that the gelatin is thoroughly mixed in. Set it aside to let it turn into a soft, green gelatin.Meanwhile, get a small pot on the stove filled halfway with water and bring it to a simmer over medium heat. While the water heats up, combine the egg whites, sugar, corn syrup and remaining 1/4 cup of water in a large, heat proof bowl. Set the bowl over the simmering water and beat it together with a hand mixer to lightly cook the eggs and dissolve the sugar for about a minute. Then add the gelatin mixture in and keep mixing it with the hand mixer for another 2–3 minutes over the heat.Take the bowl off of the heat and continue to mix it all on medium speed for about 10–15 minutes, until it has doubled in volume and becomes thick enough to be slightly stiff. Pour the mixture into the prepared pan and sprinkle it with another generous layer of powdered sugar on top. Let it sit on a shelf in the freezer for 3–4 hours to completely set. Then turn it out onto a clean cutting board dusted with more powdered sugar and peel the plastic wrap off of the bottom. Cut them into roughly 1 inch cubes and serve with s’mores, in crispy treats, you name it!

No-Bake Chocolate Peanut Butter Pie
FOR THE OREO CRUST:
20 whole Oreos
5 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, melted
PEANUT BUTTER FILLING:
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
1-1/2 cup Creamy Peanut Butter
1 cup Powdered Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
FOR THE CHOCOLATE GANACHE:
1 cup Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
2 Tablespoons Creamy Peanut Butter
1/2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream

For the Oreo crust: Add Oreos to a food processor and pulse until you have fine crumbs. Add melted butter to the food processor and pulse a couple more times to combine. (If your food processor is not big enough, you can do this in two batches or mix in a small bowl.)Press into a 9-inch pie pan and place crust in the freezer for 10 minutes to set.For the peanut butter filling: In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream butter and peanut butter until smooth. Add powdered sugar and vanilla and beat on low speed until incorporated.Spoon the peanut butter mixture into the crust. Place in the refrigerator while you are working on your ganache.For the chocolate ganache: Add chocolate chips, peanut butter and heavy cream to a microwave safe bowl. Heat in 15-second intervals until fully melted.Allow ganache to cool for about 2–3 minutes. Pour and spread ontop of the peanut butter layer. Place back in the refrigerator for at least 1 hours to set.

Raspberry Lemon Greek Yoghurt Popsicles
1 cup Fresh Raspberries
2 Tablespoons Honey
2 cups Greek Yoghurt
1 Lemon, Juiced And Zested

Using a food processor, blend raspberries and honey until almost smooth. Pour into a large bowl.Combine yoghurt, lemon zest and juice (add as much of the juice as you want to your preference), then add to the raspberries. Mix together but do not fully blend.Pour the mixture evenly between popsicle molds. Freeze for 2 hours before putting wooden popsicle sticks in the centres. Freeze for a further 4 hours or overnight.When ready to serve, run the molds under warm water to remove easily.

Peanut Butter Chocolate Chunk Cookies
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
3/4 cups Peanut Butter
3/4 cups Light Brown Sugar, Packed
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Large Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 package (3 1/2 Oz. Size) Instant Vanilla Pudding Mix (not Sugar-free And Not ‘Cook & Serve’)
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 pounds Bittersweet Or Semisweet Chocolate, Chopped (See Note)

In the bowl of a mixer fitted with the paddle attachment (or a large bowl using an electric mixer), combine butter, peanut butter, sugars, eggs, and vanilla. Beat on medium-high speed until creamed and well combined, about 4 minutes.Stop the mixer and scrape down the sides of bowl. Add flour, pudding mix, and baking soda and beat on low speed until just combined, about 1 minute.Stop the mixer and again scrape down sides of bowl. Add chocolate chunks (or chips) and mix briefly with mixer on low speed, just until combined. This could also be done by hand with a spatula.Using a cookie scoop or spoon, form dough into balls and flatten slightly. How much dough you use depends on how big you want your cookies; the original recipe calls for 1/4 cup dough per cookie. However, I used about between 1-2 tablespoons of dough per cookie, give or take a little, and they baked into a good size.Place balls of dough onto a plate, container, or tray and chill in fridge for 2 hours (or up to 5 days).Preheat oven to 350°F and line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Place balls of dough onto baking sheet, spaced at least 2 inches apart. Bake for about 11 minutes, or until edges have set and tops are just set. They will probably look underbaked, but do not over-bake! The cookies will firm up as they cool.Let the cookies cool on baking sheet for about 10 minutes before serving.Note: For the chocolate, I absolutely love Trader Joe’s 72% Cacoa Dark Chocolate. It’s a bittersweet chocolate. I love it because it’s delicious in cookies (uh, chocolate in every bite #win, it’s easy to chop (and this is coming from the girl who will always elect to use chocolate chips when possible to avoid chopping chocolate), and it comes in 1-pound bars! At a reasonable price!Recipe adapted from Averie Cooks.

Cherry & Chocolate Ice Cream Pie
15 whole Oreo Cookies
1/4 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
3/4 cups Hot Fudge Ice Cream Topping
4 cups Vanilla Ice Cream, Softened
3 cups Fresh Or Frozen Dark Sweet Cherries, Pitted And Quartered, Divided
1/2 cups Water
1/4 cups Sugar
2 Tablespoons Thawed Cranberry Juice Concentrate
1 Tablespoon Cornstarch
1 Tablespoon Cherry Liqueur (optional)

Pulse cookies in a food processor until fine crumbs form. Add butter; process until blended. Press mixture onto bottom and up the sides of an ungreased 9-inch pie plate. Freeze until firm, about 15 minutes. Carefully, spread hot fudge topping over bottom of crust. Freeze until firm, about 30 minutes.Combine the ice cream and 1 cup cherries; spread over hot fudge later. Freeze until firm, about 8 hours.Meanwhile, in a large saucepan, combine water, sugar, cranberry juice and cornstarch. Bring to a boil over medium heat, stirring constantly. Stir in remaining cherries. Reduce heat; simmer, uncovered, until thickened and cherries are soft, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat. If desired, stir in liqueur. Cool completely.Remove pie from freezer 10 minutes before cutting. Serve with sauce.Recipe from Taste of Home Summer 2016.

Key Lime Shortbread Cookie
1/3 cups Coconut Sugar
7 Tablespoons Butter
3 Limes, Zested
3/4 cups Spelt Flour
3 Tablespoons All-purpose Flour
1/3 cups Arrowroot Starch
1 Tablespoon Key Lime Juice

If you’re using coconut sugar, grind it in a coffee or spice grinder to get it into a fine powder. Beat sugar, butter, and lime zest together. Add spelt flour, all-purpose flour, arrowroot starch, and lime juice. If your dough is too soft, add 1 tablespoon of all-purpose flour at a time until crumbly.Roll dough into a ball and chill for 30 minutes. Preheat oven to 350°F.Roll out dough to 1/2 to 3/4 inch thickness. Cut out cookies and place on lined baking sheet. Bake for 10–15 minutes. Cool on a wire rack and enjoy!Notes: If you do not have spelt flour, just substitute more all-purpose flour.

Mint Chocolate Crispy Treats
4 Tablespoons Butter
10 ounces, weight Mint Marshmallows, Either Store Bought Or Homemade From My TK Recipe Box
1 pinch Salt
6 cups Chocolate Rice Cereal
1 box (4.67 Oz. Size Or 28 Candies) Chocolate Mint Candies

Take a 9 x 13 baking pan and grease it well with butter. Then get a large saucepan on the stove and melt 4 tablespoons of butter over medium high heat. Add marshmallows and pinch of salt and stir it all together until marshmallows are completely melted.Pour in the chocolate rice cereal and stir it all together thoroughly to coat the cereal in the marshmallow cream. Quickly turn the mixture out into the prepared pan and press it out into a firm, even layer. Then evenly sprinkle the mint candies on top while it is still hot.Let it cool completely for at least 1 hour, then cut into squares and serve!

Peanut Butter S’more Stuffed Cookies
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
3/4 cups Peanut Butter
3/4 cups Light Brown Sugar, Packed
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Large Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
2 cups All-purpose Flour
1 package (3 1/2 Oz. Size) Instant Vanilla Pudding Mix (not Sugar-free And Not ‘Cook & Serve’)
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
5 Regular Sized Marshmallows
1 bar (4.4 Oz. Size) Milk Chocolate (I Used Hershey’s)
1 Sheet Graham Cracker

In the bowl of a mixer fitted with the paddle attachment (or a large bowl using an electric mixer), combine butter, peanut butter sugars, eggs, and vanilla. Beat on medium-high speed until creamed and well combined, about 4 minutes.Stop mixer and scrape down the sides of bowl. Add flour, pudding mix, and baking soda and beat on low speed until just combined, about 1 minute.Stop the mixer and again scrape down sides of bowl. Place bowl in freezer. This is to slightly firm up the dough before assembling cookies.While dough is chilling, cut marshmallows in half and set aside. Take 10 little squares off the chocolate bar and set aside. Next, break a graham cracker sheet into 10 small pieces and set aside.Remove bowl from freezer and assemble cookies. To assemble, take about 2 tablespoons of cookie dough, roll into a ball, then flatten with the palm of your hand. Repeat with another 2 tablespoons of dough. Place 1 graham cracker piece, 1 chocolate square, and 1 marshmallow half on top of 1 flattened dough ball. Place the second flattened dough ball on top and press the edges together to seal (see note below), then form into a ball. Repeat with remaining dough, graham crackers, marshmallows, and chocolate; setting balls onto a plate, container, or tray. (Note: a link for a similar assembling technique can be found on the site.)Chill in fridge for 2 hours (or up to 5 days).Preheat oven to 350°F and line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Place dough mounds on sheet, spaced at least 2 inches apart. Bake for about 11–13 minutes, or until edges have set and tops are just set. They may still look underbaked, but do not over-bake! The cookies will firm up as they cool. Let the cookies cool on baking sheet for about 10 minutes before serving. If desired, drizzle some melted chocolate on top, because there is no such thing as too much chocolate!Note: When sealing the cookies, you may notice excess dough around the edges. To remedy this, trim any excess dough off the edges with your fingers and re-seal.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Lavender Blueberry Double Chocolate Muffins
FOR THE CUPCAKES:
4 Yolks
2 Tablespoons Butter
1 cup Plus 2 Tablespoons Flour
14 Tablespoons Milk
12 Tablespoons Sugar
2 Tablespoons Cocoa
1 teaspoon Lemon Zest
1 drop Edible Lavender Oil
24 pieces Blueberries
FOR THE GANACHE:
6 Tablespoons Heavy Cream
4 Tablespoons Chocolate, Melted
FOR THE GARNISH:
24 pieces Blueberries
Lavender Flowers

Prepare a muffin baking dish, inserting a paper cup in each hole. Sett the dish aside.Preheat oven to 180ºC (356ºF).In a medium-sized bowl, mix yolks and butter well. Add the rest of the ingredients (except blueberries) slowly and mix until smooth.Fill the paper cups 2/3 full and insert 3 blueberries inside every cup by gently pressing them in with your finger so they do not sink to the bottom of the cup. Bake for 16 minutes or until an inserted toothpick comes out clean. Take the muffins out and let cool.For the ganache, melt the chocolate in a microwave. In a small frying pan, heat the heavy cream. Do not boil it; just make it hot and take away from the heat.Add melted chocolate into the cream and mix well. Spread ganache over the muffins. Garnish every muffin with 3 blueberries and some lavender flowers.

Peach Galette
1 whole Pie Crust Or Pastry Dough
2 whole Peaches
1/4 cups Date Sugar
1/2 whole Lemon, Juiced
1 teaspoon Cinnamon
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
Lemon Zest

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Spray a round pie dish and place the pastry dough in the center with the edges folded over the side.Wash and slice the peaches thinly. Place the peach slices in a medium size bowl. Add the remaining ingredients and mix so the peach slices are entirely and evenly covered. Sprinkle with lemon zest.Arrange the peach slices in a circular motion starting with the outside layer. Then fold the dough over the peach slices.Bake for 35–40 minutes. Serve hot with vanilla ice cream. Refrigerate remaining galette.

Chunky Monkey Banana Ice Cream Bowls
2 Tablespoons Walnuts
2 Tablespoons Salted Peanuts
2 Large Bananas, Cut Into Coins And Frozen
1 Tablespoon Natural Peanut Butter, Plus Additional (optional) For Drizzling
2 Udi's Gluten Free Dark Chocolate Brownie Bites, Chopped

Toasting the nuts is optional, but I think they taste better toasted. To toast nuts, preheat oven to 350ºF and spread the walnuts and peanuts onto a small pan. Bake until lightly golden brown and toasted, about 5–10 minutes.Place frozen banana coins (cutting them into coins before freezing helps them blend smoother) and peanut butter into a high-powered blender and puree (or use the ice cream setting if you have one) until smooth and creamy. You may need to stop the blender and scrape down the sides a few times.Divide the “ice cream” between bowls, followed by the walnuts, peanuts and chopped up brownie bites. Drizzle with additional peanut butter (if desired—but you should!) and devour.

Zucchini Mini Cupcakes with Honey Pistachio Buttercream
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Nutmeg
2/3 cups Canola Or Coconut Oil
1-1/2 cup Granulated Sugar
2 teaspoons Lemon Zest
3 Large Eggs
1-1/2 cup Grated Zucchini, Drained
3 Tablespoons Buttermilk
1 teaspoon Lemon Juice
FOR THE BUTTERCREAM:
3/4 cups Pistachios, Chopped
1 cup Unsalted Butter
3 cups Powdered Sugar
1/4 cups Honey
1 teaspoon Lemon Extract
1/8 teaspoons Salt

Preheat oven to 350ºF and put liners in a mini muffin pan.Whisk together all the dry ingredients and set aside.In the bowl of a standing mixer with a paddle attachment, beat together oil, sugar, and lemon zest together on medium speed for 2 minutes. Add eggs, one at a time.Slowly mix in dry ingredients until dry ingredients are no longer visible. Careful not to over mix. Gently fold in zucchini, buttermilk, and lemon juice.Divide batter into the mini cupcake pan and bake for 12–14 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Let the cupcakes cool for 10–15 minutes before removing them from the pan.For the buttercream frosting: Chop up the pistachios in a food processor. You want pretty finely chopped nuts here so you can still pipe the frosting without clogging the tip.Set a frying pan over medium heat. Add pistachios and stir occasionally until they start to smell delicious, or until they barely start to brown. Set aside to cool.In a large mixing bowl or stand mixer, cream butter for several minutes until fluffy. Add 2 cups of powdered sugar and honey. Beat well. Add remaining 1 cup powdered sugar, lemon extract, and salt. Beat well.Add the chopped pistachios when they are completely cooled and beat briefly until incorporated. Try not to eat all the frosting, since we still need some for the cupcakes.Pipe frosting onto cupcakes when cool. Sample often.

Mint Chocolate Chip Greek Yoghurt Popsicles
FOR THE POPSICLES:
2 cups Vanilla Greek Yoghurt
1/2 cups Milk
2 teaspoons Mint Extract
2 Tablespoons Honey
Green Food Colouring
1/2 cups Chocolate Chips
FOR THE CHOCOLATE SHELL:
1 cup Chocolate, Chopped
2 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

For the popsicles: Whisk together the yoghurt, milk, mint extract, and honey. Add in enough green food colouring to reach your desired shade. Stir in the chocolate chips, then pour the mixture evenly into popsicle molds. If desired, sprinkle on some more chocolate chips.Freeze for 1 1/2 hours before putting wooden popsicle sticks in the centres. Freeze for an additional 4 hours or overnight.For the topping: Microwave the chocolate and coconut oil together until melted, stirring every 20 seconds. Stir in the vanilla. Let the chocolate come to room temperature.When ready to serve, run the molds under warm water to remove easily. Dip each popsicle in the chocolate, or drizzle on top. Serve immediately.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Peanut Butter and Pretzel Icebox Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
3 quarts Peanut Butter Ice Cream
4 cups Pretzel Crackers
FOR THE CARAMEL SAUCE:
1 cup Sugar
6 Tablespoons Butter
1/2 cups Heavy Cream, At Room Temperature
FOR THE CHOCOLATE SHELL:
1/2 cups Dark Chocolate, 66% To 72%, Finely Chopped
1 cup Coconut Oil
6 Tablespoons Corn Syrup
FOR DECORATING:
Mini Peanut Butter Cups
Crushed Pretzels

For the cake: Cut and peel the carton away from the ice cream. Slice the ice cream into 4 even slices and transfer to a rimmed baking sheet. Place in the refrigerator to thaw. This way, the ice cream will thaw evenly.Cut a piece of parchment paper to line the bottom of a loaf pan, leaving enough parchment on each side to drape over the sides. Spread a thin layer of ice cream on the bottom of the pan. Line with pretzel crackers (it’s ok if some overlap). Spread a thawed slice of ice cream over the pretzels. Continue layering, finishing with a layer of ice cream. Place in the freezer for at least 2 hours or overnight.For the caramel sauce: Pour sugar into a saucepot and place over medium heat. Let the sugar sit until you see it start to melt along the edges. Gently stir the sugar to distribute the heat. Continue to keep an eye on the sugar, occasionally stirring until it melts and reaches an amber color. If it clumps, continue to stir until it melts.Add butter to the sugar and stir until combined. Remove from heat and carefully add in room-temperature heavy cream. Be careful because the sugar will bubble up. (It’s important that the heavy cream is room temperature or the caramel will seize.) Whisk until well combined and smooth. Set aside to cool.For the chocolate shell: In a glass bowl, combine chocolate, oil, and corn syrup. Microwave for 30 seconds and stir. Continue to microwave at 15-second intervals until chocolate has completely melted. Set aside to cool.To assemble: Run a knife along the edges of the cake. Gently tug on the parchment paper to release the cake from the pan. Invert the cake on to a platter and peel away the parchment paper.Spoon chocolate shell over the cake letting it drip off the sides. Let the chocolate shell harden. Drizzle the caramel over the cake. If it is too firm, microwave for 10–15 seconds. Garnish with crushed pretzels and mini peanut butter cups.Serve.Note: Remaining chocolate shell and caramel can be stored in airtight containers. Keep chocolate shell stored at room temperature for up to three months. If it separates, just shake until well combined. Store caramel in the refrigerator for one month.

No-Bake White Chocolate Raspberry Cheesecake
FOR THE RASPBERRY SAUCE:
1-1/4 cup Fresh Raspberries
2 Tablespoons Water
1/2 cups Sugar
2 Tablespoons Cornflour
FOR THE CRUST:
2-1/2 cups Biscuit Crumbs
1/4 cups Sugar
1/3 cups Unsalted Butter, melted
FOR THE CHEESECAKE:
1-1/2 cup Heavy Cream
1 cup Icing Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 pound, 8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese
1/2 cups Sugar
1-1/2 cup White Chocolate, Melted
FOR THE SWIRLS:
3/4 cups Heavy Cream
1/3 cups Icing Sugar

For the raspberry sauce: Using a food processor, blend the raspberries and water until smooth.In a saucepan over medium heat, combine the sugar and cornflour. Add the raspberry puree and stir constantly until the mixture thickens and comes to a boil. Allow to boil for 1 minute, then remove from the heat. Allow to cool completely.For the crust: Grease the base and sides of a 9-inch springform pan and set aside.Stir together the biscuit crumbs and sugar. Add the melted butter and mix until all the crumbs are moist. Press the mixture into the prepared pan and chill whilst preparing the cheesecake.For the cheesecake: Using a handheld or stand mixer, whip heavy cream until it starts to thicken. Add icing sugar and vanilla and whip until stiff peaks form.In a separate bowl, using the mixer again, beat cream cheese and sugar together until smooth and combined. Add melted chocolate and mix until combined. Gently fold in whipped cream.Divide cheesecake mixture evenly between two bowls. Add 1/4 cup (about 80 grams) of the raspberry sauce to one bowl and combine.Spread the raspberry cheesecake mixture evenly over the cooled crust. Gently top with the white cheesecake mixture and smooth out evenly. Spread the remaining raspberry sauce on top and chill for at least 6 hours, preferably overnight.For the swirls: Using a handheld or stand mixer, whip the heavy cream until it starts to thicken. Add icing sugar and whip until stiff peaks form. Transfer whipped cream to a piping bag and pipe swirls on top of the cheesecake. Slice and serve.

Mixed Berry Pie
2 whole 9-inch Pie Crusts
3/4 cups White Granulated Sugar, Plus 1 Teaspoon, Divided
7 Tablespoons All-purpose Flour, Divided
2 cups Fresh Raspberries
3 cups Fresh Blackberries
1 whole Egg, Beaten

Preheat oven to 400°F. Grease a 9-inch round baking dish. Unroll one pie crust and place it in the bottom of the baking dish, gently pressing in the dough so it touches all sides. Set aside.In a medium bowl, whisk together 3/4 cup sugar and 6 tablespoons flour. Add raspberries and blackberries to the bowl and gently stir to combine. Pour fruit mixture into the prepared pie crust.Next, unroll second pie crust onto a lightly floured surface using remaining 1 tablespoon flour and cut into 1-inch thick strips. Starting on one end and gradually moving to the other, weave pie crust strips to create lattice top (instead of doing lattice strips, you could also leave the second pie crust as is and set it on top of the pie whole, cutting three or four slits in the top for steam). Gently press ends of strips into base crust. If crust isn’t sticking, wet your hands and then try pressing the dough together.In a small bowl, whisk egg. Gently brush egg over the crust, then sprinkle remaining 1 teaspoon sugar on top. Place pie in the preheated oven and bake for 40–45 minutes. If crust is browning too quickly, cover browned crust with a piece of aluminum foil.Once baked, allow to sit 1 to 2 hours to cool before serving. Store in the refrigerator.Notes I recommend using fresh fruit for this recipe. The best way to buy a large number of berries without breaking the bank would be to buy them from a local farmer or to buy them at a wholesaler. In each case, I find I can usually get more fruit for less money. If you must use frozen fruit, thaw fruit completely and drain off excess liquid before tossing in flour/sugar mixture.

Grilled Pound Cake with Mascarpone Cream and Blueberries
1 cup Mascarpone Cheese
1/4 cups Powdered Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1-1/2 cup Heavy Cream
3 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
1 loaf Pound Cake (Homemade Or Frozen), Cut Into 1-inch Slices
1/2 cups Blueberry Jam
Fresh Blueberries

In a large bowl, beat mascarpone cheese, powdered sugar, and vanilla extract with a hand mixer or stand mixer with fitted paddle attachment until smooth and creamy.Add heavy cream and beat until soft peaks form. Refrigerate until ready to use.Heat grill pan (or gas grill) to medium heat. Lightly butter each side of pound cake slices. Place each slice onto grill and cook for about 2–3 minutes per side, or until grill marks form. Remove from pan. Repeat with rest of pound cake slices.To assemble, top each slice with a dollop of mascarpone cream, about 1 tablespoon of blueberry jam, and fresh blueberries. Serve immediately.

Raspberry & Blueberry Frozen Yoghurt Pops
1 cup Fresh Blueberries
1 cup Fresh Raspberries
1 cup Greek Yoghurt
1/2 cups Water
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 Tablespoon Sugar

Put the berries on a large chopping board and finely chop them with a knife. You want pretty fine pieces, so chop until they are quite small. Make sure you don’t let the juice drain off the chopping board as you are cutting them. If it is draining away, collect it in a bowl.In a large bowl, add yogurt, water, vanilla and sugar. Mix to combine and stir in chopped berries. Have ready popsicle molds and evenly fill them to the top. Put in freezer until frozen. Depending on the temperature of the freezer, this will take between 6–8 hours.

Easy Flatbread Fruit Pizza
2 Tablespoons Unsweetened Flaked Coconut
1 Whole Wheat Naan Flatbread
1/2 teaspoons Melted Coconut Oil
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
1 pinch Fine Grain Sea Salt
1/4 cups Whole Milk Ricotta Cheese
2 teaspoons Prepared Lemon Curd
8 ounces, weight Fresh Mixed Berries (strawberries Sliced In Halves Or Quarters)
Freshly Grated Lemon Zest
Fresh Mint Leaves

Preheat toaster oven to 325ºF.Spread coconut in a single layer on a rimmed cookie sheet or pan. Toast for 4–6 minutes until lightly golden. Remove coconut and set aside to cool. Increase toaster oven temperature to 400ºF.Brush the top of the flatbread with coconut oil and sprinkle with cinnamon and salt.Bake flatbread at 400ºF for 7–8 minutes until golden and crisp on the edges. Remove the flatbread and cool completely before topping (about 5 minutes).While the flatbread cools, whisk together ricotta and lemon curd until smooth.To assemble the pizza, slice the flatbread into six pieces but do not separate the slices. Spread ricotta mixture onto the flatbread and top with berries, coconut, lemon zest and mint. Before serving, gently run your knife through the previous cuts in the flatbread. Serve immediately and enjoy!

Easy Shoofly Cake
1 cup Molasses (not Blackstrap)
1 Tablespoon Baking Soda
2-1/4 cups Boiling Water
4 cups All-purpose Flour
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 cups Light Brown Sugar
3/4 cups Vegetable Oil

Preheat oven to 350ºF.In a medium-sized heat-proof bowl, combine molasses, baking soda, and boiling water and stir until well mixed. Set aside.In a large bowl, whisk together flour, salt, and brown sugar. Add vegetable oil and mix with your hands until crumbs form.Remove 1 ½ cups of the crumb mixture and set aside. Whisk remaining crumbs into the molasses mixture until combined. The batter will be thin.Pour the batter into an ungreased 13×9 baking dish. Sprinkle the 1 ½ cups of reserved crumbs evenly over the batter.Bake for 40–45 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean. Cool completely on a wire rack.

Chocolate Ganache
4 ounces, weight Bittersweet Chocolate Drops, Or Chopped Chocolate
1/2 cups Heavy Cream

Place the chocolate in a medium bowl, and set aside.Heat heavy cream in a saucepan over medium high heat, and bring to a scalding temperature, which is 180ºF. If you don’t have a thermometer, this is when the edges of the cream start to bubble, but it hasn’t reached a full boil yet. Remove the cream from the heat and immediately pour onto the chocolate. Let sit for 2 minutes.Stir the chocolate and cream together with a spoon until the two combine into a thick, luxurious chocolate ganache. It’s now ready to be used for glazing cakes or dipping cookies.

No-Churn Chocolate Ice Cream
1 pint Heavy Cream
1 stick Cinnamon
3 whole Cardamom Pods
3 whole Star Anise
1/4 cups Coffee Beans
1 pinch Salt (generous)
14 ounces, weight Canned Chocolate Condensed Milk
2 Tablespoons Cocoa Powder
1/2 Tablespoons Vanilla Extract

Add heavy cream, cinnamon, cardamon, star anise, coffee beans, and salt to a saucepan. Bring to a simmer, and once simmering, turn off heat and cover for about 45 minutes to let the aromatics steep.After 45 minutes, strain mixture, reserving the cream and discarding the aromatics. Add cream to a bowl and place in the freezer for about 30 minutes, getting it very cold but not frozen.In a mixer, pour in condensed milk and cocoa powder. Mix on medium speed until cocoa powder is incorporated.Remove the cream from the freezer and pour into the condensed milk, mixing on medium speed for roughly 5 minutes. Mix in vanilla.Pour the mixture into a parchment-paper-lined bread pan and place into the freezer for 5 hours or until you have a solid ice cream. When ready to serve, scoop out and dig in.This ice cream is not only super smooth but also has the best infusion, keeping you trying to guess what those flavors are.

Lemon Blueberry Bundt or Loaf Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
2-1/2 cups All Purpose Flour, Plus A Little More For Dusting The Blueberries
2 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Fine Salt
1-3/4 cup Granulated Sugar
1 Lemon, Zested
16 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature
3 Large Eggs
1/2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
1/2 teaspoons Pure Lemon Oil (optional, But Recommended)
3/4 cups Buttermilk
3 cups Fresh Blueberries
FOR THE ICING:
3 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Room Temperature
1 teaspoon Vanilla Bean Paste
2 teaspoons Heavy Cream
1 cup Confectioners Sugar (Sifted)

For the the cake: Preheat oven to 350ºF and spray a 10 to 12-cup bundt pan or two 8×4-inch loaf pans with Baker’s Joy. In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, baking soda, and salt; set aside until needed.In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a BeaterBlade attachment, cream butter, sugar, eggs, vanilla, lemon oil, and lemon zest for 3 minutes. Add the flour mixture and buttermilk alternating 1/3 flour, 1/2 buttermilk, 1/3 flour, 1/2 buttermilk, and 1/3 flour, mixing well after each addition. Toss blueberries with 2 tablespoons of flour until well coated. Gently fold blueberries in to the cake batter by hand. Pour batter into prepared pan(s).Bake in center of preheated oven for 45–60 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center of the cake comes out clean. Remove cakes from oven and cool for 10 minutes before turning out of pan(s).Cool cake(s) completely on a cooling rack before icing.For the icing: Place cream cheese, vanilla bean paste, heavy cream, and confectioners sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a BeaterBlade attachment; cream until smooth. Spread icing on top of completely cool cake(s).Recipe adapted from Rustic Fruit Desserts.

Peach Raspberry Pie
2 whole 9-inch Pie Crusts
3/4 cups White Granulated Sugar, Plus 1 Tablespoon, Divided
6 Tablespoons All-purpose Flour
4 cups Sliced Fresh Peaches, Peeled And Pitted
1 cup Raspberries
2 teaspoons Lemon Juice
1 whole Egg

Preheat oven to 400ºF. Grease a 9-inch round baking dish. Unroll one pie crust and place it in the bottom of the baking dish, gently pressing in the dough so it touches all sides. Set aside.In a medium bowl, whisk together ¾ sugar and flour. Add sliced peaches, raspberries, and lemon juice to the bowl and gently stir to combine. Pour fruit mixture into the prepared pie crust.Unroll second pie crust and cut into ½-inch thick strips. Starting on one end and gradually moving to the other, weave pie crust strips to create lattice top (instead of doing lattice strips, you could also leave the second pie crust as is and set it on top of the pie whole, cutting three or four slits in the top for steam). Gently press ends of strips into base crust.In a small bowl, whisk egg. Gently brush egg over the crust, then sprinkle remaining 1 tablespoon sugar on top.Place pie in the preheated oven and bake for 40 minutes. If crust is browning too quickly, cover browned crust with a piece of aluminum foil. Once baked, allow to sit 1 to 2 hours to cool before serving. Store in the refrigerator.Note: For best results, strain peaches while you prepare the rest of the pie. The peaches release a lot of juice, which will make your pie more runny, so it is best to allow some of that liquid to drain off beforehand.

Best Ever Bars
1-1/2 cup Almonds
1/4 teaspoons Celtic Sea Salt
1/4 cups Raspberry Jam
1/4 cups Coconut Oil, Melted
1 cup Dark Chocolate Chips
Coconut Flakes, For Sprinkling

In a food processor, pulse almonds until the texture of gravel. Pulse in salt, jam, and coconut oil until dough forms. Press dough into an 8 x 8 inch baking dish.Melt chocolate over very low heat. Pour chocolate over crust. Sprinkle coconut flakes over chocolate.Refrigerate for 30 minutes, then cut into 16 squares. Refrigerate for an additional 1 ½ hours. Serve.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

4-Ingredient Cantaloupe Ice Cream
1 cup Frozen Cantaloupe
1 cup Frozen Pineapple
1 cup Frozen Mango
2 Tablespoons Almond Milk, Or More If Needed
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice (optional)

Add all ingredients into a high-speed blender. Start at a low speed. Tamp down while blending. If needed, add up to another 2 tablespoons almond milk.Scoop into chilled bowls and serve immediately.

Baked Bourbon Soaked Nectarines with Brûléed Sugar
2 Ripe Nectarines
1/4 cups Bourbon
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Ground Cardamom

Preheat oven to 400ºF.While the oven is preheating, prepare nectarines. Slice nectarines in half, scooping out the pit (like an avocado). Using a fork, make several punctures in each half to allow the bourbon to soak in.Place all nectarine halves in a baking dish, cut side up. Combine bourbon and vanilla together in a measuring cup and pour into the cavities of the nectarines, allowing the liquid to pool where the pit was. If there is any excess, pour around the nectarines in the baking dish. Bake in preheated oven for 20 minutes.While fruit is in the oven, combine the sugar and cardamom to sprinkle on top.When the nectarines are finished in the oven, sprinkle the tops generously with the cardamom sugar. Using a culinary torch, brulee the sugar on top of the nectarines until golden brown and hard. Alternatively, you can turn your oven up to broil and stick them under the broiler for a couple minutes. Just make sure you do not take your eyes off of them.Serve warm with a scoop (or two) of vanilla ice cream and a spoonful of any leftover warm bourbon.

Mixed Berry Crumble Bars
3/4 cups Light Brown Sugar
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1 cup Rolled Oats
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/8 teaspoons Salt
1 stick Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature
FOR THE FRUIT MIXTURE:
1/3 cups White Sugar
2 teaspoons Cornstarch
2 Tablespoons Lemon Juice
1 cup Blueberries, Fresh Or Frozen
1 cup Chopped Strawberries

Preheat oven to 350ºF.Mix brown sugar, flour, rolled oats, baking soda, and salt. Add room temperature butter and work it into the dry ingredients, using a spatula or clean hands.Press half of the crumble mixture into an 8×8-inch pan lined with aluminum foil and brushed with melted butter (or sprayed with cooking spray).To make the fruit mixture, add sugar, cornstarch, and lemon juice to the berries. Gently mix everything together. Pour the fruit mixture on top of the crumble that’s in the pan. Grab the remaining crumble with your fingers and sprinkle it over the top of the fruit mixture.Bake bars for 35–40 minutes, until golden brown. Let cool, and then chill before cutting into bars. Serve warm, at room temperature, or chilled.

Chocolate Swiss Roll
FOR THE CAKE:
4 Large Eggs, Separated
3/4 cups Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1/4 cups Greek Yogurt
1 cup Cake Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 cups Cocoa Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
FOR THE FILLING:
1 cup Heavy Cream
1/2 cups Icing Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

For the cake: Preheat oven to 180ºC (350ºF or Gas 4). Grease a 10×15-inch cake roll pan, and line the base with parchment paper.Using a handheld or stand mixer, beat egg yolks on high speed until thick. Gradually beat in sugar, vanilla, and yogurt. Add flour, baking powder, and cocoa powder, and mix well.In a separate bowl, beat the egg whites and salt until stiff peaks form. Gently fold into the batter.Pour batter into prepared pan and spread out evenly. Bake for 10–15 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the centre comes out clean. Allow to cool in the pan for 5 minutes.Invert the cake onto a tea towel dusted with icing (powdered) sugar. Gently peel off parchment paper, then roll up the cake with the tea towel, starting at a short end. Allow to cool completely on a wire rack.For the filling: Using a handheld or stand mixer, whip heavy cream until it starts to thicken. Add icing sugar and vanilla and whip to stiff peaks. Unroll the cake and spread the whipped cream evenly over the cake. Re-roll without the tea towel. Cover and chill for at least 1 hour. Dust with icing (powdered) sugar and serve.

Strawberry Mint Lemonade Ice Pops
1 cup Water
1 cup White Sugar
1/2 cups Fresh Squeezed Lemon Juice
1 Tablespoon Lemon Zest
1/2 cups Chopped Strawberries
4 leaves Fresh Mint

Mix water and sugar in small saucepan and cook over low heat until sugar is completely dissolved, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat and add lemon juice and lemon zest.Purée the strawberries and strain to remove seeds. Add to mixture and refrigerate for 10 minutes.Chop mint leaves and add to lemon mixture. Pour into molds and freeze overnight.

Mojito Popsicles
2 cups Water
1/2 cups Lime Juice
1/4 teaspoons Stevia
20 Mint Leaves, Cut Into Ribbons

In a 1-quart mason jar, stir together water, lime juice, and stevia. Pour mixture into popsicle molds. Add mint ribbons to each popsicle.Set timer for 30 minutes. Place sticks into semi-frozen popsicles. Freeze for 3 hours. Serve.

Chocolate Chip Pecan Oatmeal Cookies
1/3 cups Raw Pecan Pieces
2 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, Softened
5 Tablespoons Packed Organic Brown Sugar
1-1/2 Tablespoon Well Beaten Egg
1/2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
2 Tablespoons Unsweetened Applesauce
1/2 cups White Whole Wheat Flour (or All-purpose)
3/4 teaspoons Ground Cinnamon
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1/8 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/8 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cups Old Fashioned Rolled Oats
1/3 cups Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips

Preheat toaster oven to 350ºF.Spread pecan pieces on a cookie sheet and cook for 5–6 minutes until golden and fragrant. Set nuts aside to cool and turn off toaster oven.In a medium bowl, use a hand mixer to beat the butter and brown sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in egg, vanilla and applesauce until combined. Sprinkle flour over mixture, then cinnamon, baking soda, baking powder and salt. On low speed, beat just until combined. Stir in oats, chocolate chips and cooled pecan pieces.Chill cookie dough in the refrigerator for at least 30 minutes.When ready to bake, preheat toaster oven to 375ºF and line your cookie sheet with parchment or a silpat. Drop dough into 9 mounds that are about 2 tablespoons each, at least 2 inches apart (the cookies will spread while baking) onto the prepared cookie sheet.Bake for 13–15 minutes until lightly browned and golden. Let cool at least 5 minutes on the cookie sheet and then transfer to a baking rack to cool completely.Note: To measure the egg, crack your large egg into a small bowl and beat with a fork for 20 to 30 seconds then measure out the egg for the recipe. Store leftover egg in the fridge for up to 24 hours.

Grilled Peaches with Cinnamon and Brown Sugar
3 Tablespoons Brown Sugar
1/2 Tablespoons Cinnamon
3 Peaches, Halved And Pits Removed
1 Tablespoon Unsalted Butter, melted
Yogurt, Ice Cream And/or Caramel Syrup For Topping, If Desired

Preheat grill (or a grill pan) to medium heat.Mix brown sugar and cinnamon in a small bowl. Set aside.Lightly brush the cut side of peaches with melted butter. Place peaches, cut side down, onto grill pan. Grill for about 3 minutes, or until peaches start to soften just a little and grill marks form. Flip peaches over and sprinkle tops with cinnamon brown sugar mixture. Grill for an additional 2–3 minutes, or until sugar mixture begins to caramelize. Remove peaches from grill pan.Serve immediately with yogurt or ice cream, if desired. Enjoy!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Birthday Cake Ice Cream (No Churn)
2 cups Whole Milk
1/2 cups Heavy Cream
1 cup Sugar
1 cup Powdered Milk
1 cup Boxed Funfetti Cake Mix
1/4 cups Candy Sprinkles

In a large metal mixing bowl, combine milk, cream, and sugar. Blend with immersion blender until sugar is dissolved, about 4–5 minutes. Add powdered milk and cake mix and continue to mix for 5–6 minutes until frothy and slightly thickened.Transfer to the freezer and freeze for 2 hours. Remove and blend again for 5 minutes. Continue this step three more times.After mixing it 4 times, cover with plastic wrap, pressing plastic wrap down onto surface of ice cream. Place in freezer and freeze overnight.Remove from freezer and add candy sprinkles and mix in with a heavy wooden spoon. Place in airtight container and freeze until ready to enjoy.

Vegan Banana Ice Cream with Cookie Dough
1/3 cups Reduced Sodium Chickpeas, Lightly Heaping
2 Tablespoons Natural Peanut Butter
1-1/2 Tablespoon Powdered Peanut Butter
1 Tablespoon Agave Nectar
1/2 teaspoons Raw Vanilla Extract
1/4 teaspoons Cinnamon
Pinch Of Salt
2 teaspoons Dairy-free Mini Chocolate Chips
6 Large Bananas, Sliced Into Coins And Frozen Overnight

Place the chickpeas, peanut butter, peanut butter powder, agave, vanilla, cinnamon, and salt in a small food processor (mine is 3 cups) and process until smooth and creamy, scraping down the sides often. Transfer to a medium bowl and stir in the chocolate chips.Line a plate with parchment paper. Roll the cookie dough into very small balls, about ¼ teaspoon-sized, and place them onto the plate. Place the plate into the freezer until the balls are hardened, about 30 minutes.Remove the frozen banana coins from the freezer and let them thaw for about 10 minutes, until they just begin to soften. Remove the cookie dough bites from the freezer as well, so they can begin to soften.Place the bananas into a high-powered food processor and blend until smooth and creamy, scraping down the sides as necessary. Transfer to a large bowl and stir in the frozen cookie dough bites. Devour.Notes: You may find it easier to separate the frozen bananas into 2 batches. Store the leftovers in an airtight container in the freezer. It will lightly brown, but will still taste great. It will also harden significantly, so you’ll just have to let it sit and thaw for a few minutes before eating it.

Lemon Basil Granita
2 cups Fresh Lemon Juice
1/4 cups Sugar
1 Tablespoon Finely Chopped Fresh Basil, Plus Additional For Garnish
1 Tablespoon Spiced Rum
Whipped Cream For Topping
Lemon Zest, For Garnish

Pour lemon juice through a fine mesh strainer into a small pot to make sure there are no stray seeds or pulp. Add sugar, basil and rum to the pot as well and heat it over medium heat. Let the mixture warm up just enough to dissolve the sugar while you stir it for about 30 seconds to a minute.Take it off heat and pour it into an 8 x 8 baking pan and get it into the freezer on a level shelf. Let it freeze for 1 hour, then take it out and fluff up any crystals with a fork. Put it back in and repeat each hour until it has frozen for 4 hours total. It will end up looking like fluffy, icy snow.Serve immediately with whipped cream on top and garnished of chopped basil and lemon zest!

Coconut Lime Meringues
2/3 cups Almond Meal
1-1/2 cup Powdered Sugar
3 Large Egg Whites, Room Temperature
5 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE LIME BUTTERCREAM:
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese
1/2 cups Powdered Sugar
3 Key Limes, All The Zest And 2/3 The Juice
FOR THE LIME CURD:
3 Eggs
3/4 cups Granulated Sugar
1/4 cups Key Lime Juice
1 teaspoon Key Lime Zest
1 drop Concentrated Gel Green Food Coloring
4 Tablespoons Butter

Preheat oven to 280ºF and position 2 racks in the lower section of the oven. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. If you have time, draw 1-inch circles on the back of each sheet, spacing the circles at least 1/2-inch apart.If your almond meal is very coarse, grind it with the powdered sugar in a food processor until fine. Sift almond meal-powdered sugar mixture twice through a mesh sieve.Place egg whites in the bowl of a stand mixer (or use a hand mixer), and begin to beat on medium-high. When eggs are frothy, gradually add granulated sugar 1 tablespoon at a time until fully incorporated. Continue to beat the egg white mixture until glossy and stiff peaks form when you lift the beaters. Gently stir in the vanilla extract. Be careful to not over-beat the meringue (i.e. the meringue takes on a clumpy texture).Add half of the sifted almond mixture, and gently fold it into the meringue using a flexible silicone spatula. Lift from the bottom, up around the sides, and toward the middle, being careful to not over-agitate the meringue and lose too much air. Once the almond mixture is predominantly incorporated, add the second half and repeat the folding motion.When the almond mixture is just incorporated, you will need to transform the batter into the appropriate texture. Using the flat of the spatula, “punch” down into the center of the batter, then scrape more batter from the sides to the center, and punch again. You will need to repeat this 10-15 times (or more, depending on your arm strength and the beginning texture of your batter) until the batter slowly and continuously drips back into the bowl when you scoop it up with the spatula. Think of the consistency of molten lava. For the best results, punch the batter a few times, check the consistency, then punch a few more times, etc. Do not make the batter too runny or the meringues won’t rise as they should, and you could end up with oil stains on the surface.Pour batter into a pastry bag fitted with a 0.4-inch tip. In a pinch, you can also use a gallon-size resealable bag: just snip a teeny bit from one of the bottom corners. Twist and clip the top of the bag to avoid overflow. On your prepared baking sheets, pipe out 1-inch rounds in the circles you drew (remember to draw the circles on the back side of your parchment to avoid ink or pencil stains on your meringues!).Holding the baking sheet in both hands, rap each baking sheet firmly on the counter two or three times. This smooths out the tops and helps form the “pied” or frilly foot on the bottoms of the meringues. Allow the piped meringues to dry, uncovered, for at least 15 minutes. The meringues should form a very thin, smooth crust where, if you tap it lightly with your finger, the batter will not stick to your finger. If after 15 minutes, the batter is still sticky, let it dry longer. This may take up to an hour on humid days.Place both baking sheets in the oven and bake for 15–18 minutes. After the first 2 minutes, open the oven to allow any excess humidity to escape. Halfway through, swap oven racks and rotate the sheets for even baking. The meringues are done when they are baked all the way through and the shells are just hard. Take care to not under-bake (insides will still be mushy) or over-bake (tops will begin to brown). Remove them from the oven, and cool on baking sheet placed on a wire rack.When fully cooled, assemble the meringues with your choice of filling. The assembled meringues can be stored in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to one week.For the lime buttercream: Beat cream cheese with a stand or hand mixer until completely smooth. Add the powdered sugar and mix until completely incorporated.Add lime juice and zest and mix. Taste and adjust lime if desired.For the lime curd: In a saucepan, whisk together the eggs and sugar until well combined. Whisk in the key lime juice, zest, and gel food coloring (I used the tiniest tip of a toothpick of gel, just to give the curd a subtle green tint. Completely optional. If you don’t use, the curd will be a creamy yellow with flecks of green from the zest).Turn the heat on to medium low and stir the mixture briskly and constantly until warmed through. Add the butter a little at a time until it melts into the mixture and becomes smooth. Continue cooking and stirring until the curd begins to thicken and coat the spoon. Pour the curd through a fine mesh sieve to strain. Pour curd into a jar or other tightly sealed container and refrigerate up to 2 weeks.To assemble and decorate: Pipe frosting onto half the cookies, sandwich with another cookie. Brush the tops with warm water and sprinkle with toasted coconut. Alternatively, you can slather a cookie with lime curd, sprinkle with coconut, and top with another cookie. Instead of coconut dusted tops, you can paint designs on your meringues with a simple small paintbrush and some watered down food coloring. The possibilities for these pictures of imperfection are endless.

Italian Chocolate Salami
7 ounces, weight Dark Chocolate, Chopped
3 ounces, weight Unsalted Butter
1/2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
1/3 cups White Sugar
2 Tablespoons Brown Sugar
1 Large Egg
1 Large Egg Yolk
6 ounces, weight Plain Cookies (tea Biscuits, Graham Crackers, Digestive Cookies), Crushed
2 Tablespoons Dark Rum
1 cup Mixed Nuts
2 Tablespoons Powdered Sugar

Mix chocolate and butter in a pot and melt it over another pot or saucepan of boiling water. Or use a double boiler if available.In a bowl, mix vanilla extract, sugar, brown sugar, egg, and egg yolk. Add it to the chocolate and butter mixture and mix. Continue to cook (stirring frequently) until sugar dissolves and it’s smooth. It should take about 5 minutes. Remove from heat.Add cookies, rum, and nuts into the chocolate mixture and stir well. Let cool.Take two sheets of parchment paper and divide the chocolate mixture between them. Roll and make two logs. Twist the ends and keep in a fridge overnight.Remove from fridge, unwrap them, and cover with powdered sugar. Cut into slices and serve.

Homemade Buttermints
1/2 cups Cold, Unsalted Butter, Cut Into 1 Inch Pieces
4 cups Confectioners Sugar, Plus More For Dusting
2 Tablespoons Whole Milk
1/2 teaspoons Peppermint Extract
1/4 teaspoons Food Coloring (optional)

Beat chilled and diced butter with a hand mixer or a stand mixer on low until creamy and smooth. Add confectioners’ sugar 1 cup at a time, scraping the sides of the bowl as needed. Increase speed to medium-high and mix sugar and butter until thoroughly combined. The consistency will be like grated Parmesan cheese.Add milk and peppermint extract. Continue to beat until smooth. Consistency should be like thick frosting.Make dough into a ball, or several balls if adding food coloring. Add the food coloring if using. I used a powder dye and sprinkled about 1/4 teaspoon into the dough ball. Knead the dye in with your hands. Cover dough balls with plastic wrap while working to prevent them from drying out.Dust a flat surface with confectioners’ sugar. Make smaller balls, golfball-sized, and roll into logs, straw-like in shape. Using a knife or pizza cutter, cut pieces off the log. When finished cutting, lay in a single layer on a paper-towel-lined cookie sheet or plate.Dust the tops of the candies with confectioners’ sugar. Allow to air dry at room temperature for about 12 hours. When candies are firm, store in an airtight container.

Nut-Free Paleo Carrot Cake
1/2 cups Coconut Flour
1/4 teaspoons Celtic Sea Salt
1/4 teaspoons Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
6 Large Eggs
1/2 cups Coconut Oil, Melted
1/3 cups Honey
1-1/2 cup Carrots, Grated
1/2 cups Zante Currants
Coconut Whipped Cream, For Frosting (optional)

In a food processor, combine coconut flour, salt, baking soda, and cinnamon. Pulse in eggs, coconut oil, and honey. Remove blade from food processor and stir in carrots and currants by hand.Grease a 7-inch springform pan with coconut oil and dust with coconut flour. Transfer batter into prepared pan. Bake at 350°F for 45–60 minutes.Cool for 1 hour. Serve frosted with coconut whipped cream, if desired.

Black and White Cheesecake Bars
8 ounces, weight Good Quality White Chocolate
30 Regular Oreo Cookies
5 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, melted
32 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened To Room Temperature
1 cup Sugar
1/2 cups Sour Cream
4 Large Eggs
2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
Oreo Cookie Crumbs (from Chocolate Cookie Only, No Filling), For Garnish
Fresh Raspberries For Garnish

Heat oven to 325°F.In the microwave or using a double boiler on the stovetop, gently melt the white chocolate. Take care to not let it scorch. Set aside to cool to room temperature.Line a 13 x 9 inch pan with foil, with ends of foil extending over the two long pan sides. In a food processor, pulse Oreos (whole, do not remove the filling) until finely ground. Drizzle in melted butter and blitz a few more times to evenly combine. Press onto bottom of prepared pan.In a large bowl, beat cream cheese and sugar with electric mixer until blended. Add sour cream and mix well. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating on low speed after each, just until blended. Add cooled white chocolate and vanilla, and beat again to combine.Pour filling mixture over crust and tap the pan gently on the counter a few times to settle the filling in. Bake for about 55 minutes, or until center is just set. Remove from oven and let cool completely at room temperature, then refrigerate for at least 4 hours or overnight. Cut around the edge of the pan and then use foil handles to lift cheesecake from pan before cutting into bars. To achieve clean cuts, dip the blade of a long non-serrated knife into a tall glass of very warm water, wipe it clean, and then make your cut. Wipe blade clean on a paper towel and repeat.Serve cheesecake bars chilled, with a sprinkle of chocolate cookie crumbs over the top, plus fresh raspberries.

2-Ingredient Chocolate Pudding
1 can (13 1/2 Oz. Size) Full Fat Coconut Milk
1 cup Dark Chocolate Chunks

In a saucepan, heat coconut milk and chocolate over very low heat. Stir constantly until chocolate is melted.Divide mixture between ½ cup mason jars. Refrigerate for 3 hours. Serve.

Lemon, Blueberry and White Chocolate Kladdkaka
35 grams White Chocolate
1 gram Butter
2 whole Eggs
130 grams Sugar
2 Tablespoons Lemon Juice
110 grams Plain Or All Purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Vanilla Sugar
1/3 cups Blueberries, Or As Needed
Icing Sugar, For Dusting

Melt chocolate and then set aside. In a separate bowl, melt butter. Set aside.Preheat oven to 175ºC (about 350ºF). Grease and flour a small 18cm (6 1/2 inch) springform.In a third bowl, beat eggs and sugar together. Add lemon juice, followed by the melted butter and chocolate.Sift flour together with vanilla sugar and then add to the wet ingredients. Mix into a fairly smooth batter and then pour into prepared springform pan. Sprinkle blueberries over the top.Bake for around 18–25 minutes, depending on how well-cooked you would like it. For a fairly molten middle, the sides should be firm to the touch but the centre still a little jiggly when you gently shake the pan.Remove from the oven and allow cake to cool for a while before removing the outside part of the springform. Leave it on the base of the pan and don’t attempt to transfer it to another dish, unless you have baked the cake right through and it is firm. Eat slightly warm or wait until the cake has cooled completely. Sprinkle with a little icing sugar before serving. Enjoy!

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Lemon Blueberry Cornmeal Shortcake
Olive Oil Cooking Spray
2 Pints Fresh Blueberries
5 Tablespoons Maple Syrup, Divided
6 Tablespoons Freshly Squeezed Lemon Juice, Divided
1 cup Stone Ground Cornmeal
1/2 cups Almond Meal
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
3/4 cups Coconut Sugar
1/4 cups Avocado Oil
1/2 cups Plain Greek Yogurt
2 Eggs
1 teaspoon Vanilla
1 Lemon, Zested
1 pint Heavy Or Whipping Cream

Preheat oven to 350ºF and spray and 8 x 8-inch baking pan with olive oil cooking spray.Combine the blueberries with ¼ cup maple syrup and ¼ cup lemon juice and set aside.Vigorously whisk together cornmeal, almond meal, baking powder, salt, and coconut sugar to combine and break up any lumps. Add avocado oil, yogurt, eggs, remaining 2 tablespoons of lemon juice, vanilla and lemon zest. In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat on medium speed until the mixture is well combined, about 30 seconds.Pour the batter into the pan and bake on the bottom rack of the oven for 25–30 minutes until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Let the cake cool completely then cut into 9 equal pieces and slice each piece through the middle to create shortcakes.In a large chilled metal bowl, whip the heavy/whipping cream and remaining 1 tablespoon of maple syrup to soft peaks in a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment. (You can substitute canned whipped cream as a shortcut.)Spoon about ½ cup (3 ounces) of the blueberry mixture on the shortcake bottoms and dollop on some of the fresh whipped cream. Cover with the other shortcake halves and more whipped cream. Garnish the tops with a few more blueberries, fresh mint, and a slice of lemon if desired.

Bakewell Tart
FOR THE PASTRY:
1-1/2 cup Plain Flour
1/4 teaspoons Salt
2 Tablespoons Sugar
1/2 cups Unsalted Butter, Chilled And Cubed
1 Large Egg, Beaten
1 Tablespoon Milk
FOR THE FILLING:
2/3 cups Unsalted Butter, Softened
3/4 cups Sugar
3 Large Eggs
3/4 cups Ground Almonds
2 teaspoons Almond Extract
6 Tablespoons Raspberry Jam
Flaked Almonds, To Garnish

For the pastry: Using a food processor, add flour, salt, and sugar and pulse to mix together. Add the cold butter and pulse until mixture resembles coarse breadcrumbs with pea-sized pieces of butter left. Add egg and milk and pulse until the dough begins to form large clumps. Bring together with your hands, and shape into a 1-inch thick disc. Wrap in plastic wrap, and chill for 1 hour. If you don’t have a food processor, you can use a pastry cutter or a fork.Preheat oven to 180ºC (350ºF or Gas 4).On a lightly floured surface, roll out the pastry to line an un-greased 23cm (9-inch) fluted tart tin with a loose base. Press lightly into the tin, letting the excess pastry hang over the edge. Make sure not to stretch the dough. Chill for 1 hour. Roll the pin over the top of the tin to cut off the excess pastry. Prick the base all over with a fork.Line the chilled pastry crust loosely with parchment paper, and fill with baking beans. Bake for 15 minutes, then remove the beans and foil and bake for a further 5 minutes until pale golden.For the filling: Using a handheld or stand mixer, beat together the butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in the eggs, one at a time. Fold in the ground almonds and extract.Spread the jam across the base of the pastry case, then spoon in the filling, spreading out evenly. Sprinkle the flaked almonds on top. Bake for 35–40 minutes or until well risen and a toothpick inserted comes out clean. Leave to cool in the tin for 5–10 minutes before lifting onto a wire rack to cool completely.

Cinnamon and Sugar Bars (Egg-Free)
1-1/2 cup Flour
1 cup Brown Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1/2 cups Water
1/2 cups Vegetable Oil
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
5 teaspoons Sugar
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Lightly grease an 8 x 8-inch baking pan.In a medium bowl, combine flour, brown sugar, baking powder and salt with a wire whisk. Add water, oil, and vanilla to dry mixture. Stir to combine.Spoon batter into prepared pan and spread until evenly distributed.In a small bowl, combine sugar and cinnamon. Sprinkle mixture over batter. Bake for 20–22 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Cool completely in pan before cutting in squares.

Blueberry Paleo Cake with Raspberry Coconut Cream
FOR THE CAKE:
1/4 cups Coconut Oil, Melted
1/4 cups Coconut Sugar
3/4 cups Plus 2 Tablespoons Honey
6 Large Eggs, Separated, At Room Temperature
4 teaspoons Lemon Zest, Very Firmly Packed
1/4 cups Fresh Lemon Juice
4 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
3/4 cups Tapioca Starch (90g)
3/4 cups Coconut Flour, Sifted (66g), Plsu 2 Teaspoons, Divided
4 teaspoons Baking Soda
3/4 teaspoons Sea Salt
1 package (6 Oz. Size) Driscoll’s Blueberries, Divided
FOR THE FROSTING:
1 can (about 13 Oz. Size) Coconut Cream (just The Cream Part, Not Including The Liquid)
1 Tablespoon Honey
1-1/2 package (6 Oz. Size) Driscoll’s Raspberries, Plus Additional For Garnish

Preheat oven to 350ºF and line the bottom of two 9-inch cake pans with parchment paper, generously rubbing coconut oil up the sides of them. Set aside.In a large bowl, using an electric hand mixer, beat together melted coconut oil and coconut sugar until well combined. Add the honey, egg yolks (make sure you’ve separate the whites into a different, large bowl) lemon zest, lemon juice, and vanilla and beat again until combined, scraping down the sides as necessary.In a separate, small bowl, stir together tapioca starch, 3/4 cup of the coconut flour (reserving the rest for later), baking soda and sea salt. Gently stir it into the wet ingredients until just combined. Then, beat until smooth and fully combined, scraping down the sides as necessary.Wash and dry your beaters very well. Then beat the egg whites until they form stiff peaks, about 4 minutes. Gently place the whipped egg whites into the bowl with the cake batter and gently fold them into the batter until no white streaks remain.In a separate, small bowl, toss 1 cup of the blueberries (reserving the rest for garnish) with the remaining coconut flour. Add them into the cake batter (along with any of the coconut flour that doesn’t stick to the berries) and gently fold in.Divide the batter between the two prepared pans evenly, gently spreading the blueberries out so they’re evenly divided across the cake. Bake until golden brown and the a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, about 25 minutes.Let cool in the pan for 30 minutes. Then, gently run a sharp knife around the sides of each pan and turn out onto wire racks to cool completely, at least 1 1/2 hours.Once the cakes are completely cool, beat together the coconut cream, honey and raspberries until smooth and creamy. Make sure the raspberries are nice and blended into the cream.Place one cake layer, bottom side up, onto a cake stand. Spread a heaping 1/2 cup of the coconut cream on top evenly. Gently place the second layer on top. Using an offset spatula, spread a thin layers of cream on the top and sides of cake. It doesn’t need to be super thick, just enough to smoothly cover the cake. This is the crumb coat.Place both the cake and the frosting into the refrigerator to set for 1 hour. Once set, use the remaining frosting to cover the top and sides of the cake. Place back into the refrigerator to set another hour. Garnish with extra berries, slice and devour.Note: Prep time does not include chilling time, which is a total of an additional 4 hours.

Perfect Pound Cake
2 cups Plain Flour
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 cup Unsalted Butter, Softened
1 cup Sugar
3 Large Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Greek-style Yogurt

Preheat oven to 180ºC (350ºF or Gas 4). Grease a 9×5-inch loaf pan and set aside.Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt. Set aside.Using a handheld or stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat butter until light and fluffy. Add sugar and beat until combined. Mix in eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in vanilla extract and yogurt, then gradually fold in the dry ingredients.Pour batter into prepared pan and bake for 50–60 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the centre comes out clean. Cover loosely with aluminium foil halfway through baking to prevent the bread from browning too much. Leave to cool completely in the pan on a wire rack before slicing and serving.

Blueberry Lemon Icebox Cake
FOR THE BLUEBERRY SAUCE:
2 Tablespoons Granulated Sugar
1 teaspoon Cornstarch
1-1/2 cup Fresh Blueberries
1/4 cups Water
FOR THE LEMON CREAM CHEESE FILLING:
1 cup Whipping Cream
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened
2/3 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Store Bought Or Homemade Lemon Curd
FOR ASSEMBLING THE ICEBOX CAKE:
16 pieces Graham Crackers

Line a 9 x 5 inch loaf pan with plastic wrap, leaving overhang on all sides.To prepare blueberry sauce, mix all ingredients in a small bowl and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer until mixture begins to thicken, about 2 minutes. Remove from heat. Let cool completely.To prepare filling, in the bowl of a standing mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, beat the cream until it holds firm peaks. Remove cream from bowl and keep cold in fridge.In the same bowl, using the paddle attachment, beat cream cheese, sugar and vanilla until it’s soft and creamy. Gently fold 1/3 of the whipped cream into the cream cheese mixture to lighten the mixture, then add the remaining cream and continue folding until incorporated. Fold in lemon curd until combined.To assemble, place a single layer of graham crackers on the bottom of the prepare pan, breaking as needed to fit in. Using a small offset spatula, evenly spread a quarter of lemon cream cheese filling over graham crackers, then 1/2 cup of blueberry sauce and another quarter of lemon cream cheese filling. Repeat layering process with graham crackers, cream cheese filling, blueberry sauce, cream cheese filling. Finish with a final layer of graham crackers.Cover with plastic wrap. Freeze for at least 4 hours.Using the plastic overhang, unmold the cake. Slice cake into layers and serve with the remaining blueberry sauce.

Peach Nice Cream
1 whole Banana, Previously Frozen
1-1/2 cup Sliced Peaches, Previously Frozen
1/2 cups Coconut Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla

Pour all ingredients in the bowl of a food processor. Blend until smooth.Transfer half of the mixture to a Zoku Ice Cream Maker and follow instruction manual until nice cream forms. Repeat with the remaining mixture. Serve with desired toppings.Alternatively, pour the ingredients into an airtight container and freeze until the nice cream reaches a frozen yogurt texture.

Limoncellos
FOR THE COOKIES:
3/4 cups Butter, Softened
1/3 cups Sugar, Plus More For Sprinkling
1/4 teaspoons Salt
1 Large Egg
1/2 teaspoons Lemon Extract
2 Tablespoons Lemon Curd
1 Lemon, Zested
1 Tablespoon Limoncello
3 drops Yellow Food Coloring
2-1/3 cups All-purpose Flour
FOR THE FILLING:
1/2 cups Ricotta
1/4 cups Marscapone
1 teaspoon Lemon Extract
1 Lemon, Zested
1 Tablespoon Limoncello
4 cups Confectioners Sugar
1/3 cups Heavy Cream

Preheat oven to 400ºF. Cream butter and sugar together until light and fluffy, 3–5 minutes. Then beat in salt, egg, lemon extract, lemon curd, lemon zest, limoncello and food coloring. Scrape the bowl and beat again to combine. Slowly add flour until just combined.Scoop dough into a cookie press. Press the cookies onto parchment-lined baking sheets. Sprinkle with sugar. Bake for 7–8 minutes. Cool for 2–3 minutes on the cookie sheets before moving.For the filling, place the ricotta, mascarpone, lemon extract, zest and limoncello into a bowl and beat until smooth and creamy. Add the sugar, alternating with the cream, and whisk until thickened and light.Spread filling between cookies. Enjoy the sweet and the tangy of a limoncello cookie.

Boozy Mudslide Fudge Pops
1/4 cups Bailey's Irish Cream Liqueur
1/4 cups Kahlua
1-1/2 cup Very Cold Milk
1 package (3.9 Oz. Size) JELL-O Chocolate Fudge Instant Pudding
1/2 cups Cool Whip (whipped Topping)

In a medium-sized bowl, combine Bailey’s, Kahlua, and cold milk. Add pudding mix and whisk vigorously for 2 minutes. Add the Cool Whip and fold in with a spatula until well-blended.Spoon into ice pop molds or silicone ice cube tray and insert a wood treat stick in the center of each. Freeze at least 6 hours or until firm.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

No Churn Neapolitan Ice Cream
10 ounces, fluid Sweetened Condensed Milk, Divided
1-1/2 teaspoon Vanilla, Divided
3 Tablespoons Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1 cup Diced Fresh Strawberries, Divided
2 cups Heavy Whipping Cream

Divide sweetened condensed milk evenly into 3 medium bowls. Into the first bowl, whisk in 1 teaspoon vanilla, then set aside. Into the second bowl, whisk in cocoa powder until smooth and well combined (it will be very thick) and set aside.In a blender, puree 1/2 cup of the strawberries until smooth. To the third bowl, stir in remaining 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, the strawberry puree and remaining diced strawberries. If you want the colour to be more intense, you can also add a few drops of red food colouring to this bowl.With an electric mixer, whip cream until stiff peaks form. Divide the whipped cream into 3 equal portions and gently fold one portion into each of the three bowls until combined.In a freezer safe 9×5 inch loaf pan, alternate spoonfuls of the 3 mixtures until all of the cream mixture is in the pan. Cover pan with plastic wrap and freeze until solid, at least 6 hours. Allow ice cream to sit at room temperature for a couple of minutes before scooping to let it soften slightly. Enjoy!

Coconut Espresso Chocolate Chip Ice Cream
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Cold Coconut Milk
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Cold Coconut Cream
1/4 cups Honey
1 Tablespoon Espresso Powder
1 cup Chocolate Chips (I Use Enjoy Life)

Place both coconut milks in the refrigerator overnight.Turn the burner on medium-high and whisk together coconut milk, coconut cream, honey and espresso powder. The mixture should come to a low bowl. Turn down to low and cook for about 5 minutes, stirring frequently. You will have to whisk well, because the coconut milk separates in the can.Remove from pan and place in the fridge for several hours. Or you can place the container on the counter in a large bowl of ice. It must be cold before you put it in the ice cream maker.Add chocolate chips and stir. Pour into ice cream maker and follow manufacturer’s directions. It took mine about 20 minutes to come together.Serve immediately for soft-serve style or place back in the freezer for a hard-packed ice cream.Makes about 1 quart.

Hazelnut Pistachio Biscotti
1-1/2 cup All-purpose Flour
1 cup Granulated Sugar
2 teaspoons Cinnamon
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 cups Chopped Hazelnuts
1/2 cups Chopped Pistachios
3 whole Eggs
2-1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract

Preheat oven to 350ºF and line a sheet tray with a silicone mat. Whisk the flour, sugar, cinnamon and baking powder together in a mixing bowl, then stir in the hazelnuts and pistachios. In another bowl, whisk the eggs and vanilla together. Pour the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients and stir it together well until it becomes a soft and very sticky dough.Turn the dough out onto a well floured and clean surface. Divide it in half, then with floured hands form each half into a log that goes almost the length of the sheet pan. Place the logs side by side on the sheet tray with plenty of space in between them, then just lightly press down on the log to make the side on the tray flat. Bake for 30 minutes. When they are done, let them cool for at least 10 minutes or so on the trays. Leave the oven on.When they have cooled, transfer the logs to a cutting board and slice each log into 1/2 inch thick biscotti. Lay them back out on the sheet tray with the cut side down and bake them for another 20 minutes. Let them cool again and serve with great espresso, coffee or tea! These will also keep in sealed containers for about a week.

Chocolate Butterscotch Nut Bars
2 cups Crushed Graham Cracker
1 cup Peanut Butter
5 Tablespoons Melted Butter
3 Tablespoons Honey
1/4 cups Chopped Almonds
1/4 cups Chopped Walnuts
1/4 cups Macadamia Nuts
2/3 cups Semi-Sweet Chocolate Chips
2/3 cups Butterscotch Chips

In a bowl, mix together graham crackers, peanut butter, melted butter, and honey. Fold in almonds, walnuts, and Macadamia nuts. Spread mixture across bottom of an ungreased 8-inch square glass pan.In another bowl, microwave chocolate and butterscotch chips until melted. Stir to swirl. Pour onto top of the nut mixture, and distribute evenly. Place pan in refrigerator to cool.

Mocha Fudgsicles
1-1/2 ounce, weight Dark Chocolate, Chopped
1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
1-1/2 Tablespoon Cornstarch
2 Tablespoons Unsweetened Cocoa Powder
1-1/2 cup Milk (I Used 2 %)
1/2 cups Strong Brewed Coffee
1/2 teaspoons Kosher Salt
3/4 teaspoons Vanilla
2 teaspoons Unsalted Butter

In a medium saucepan, over low heat, melt the chocolate, stirring constantly. Add sugar, corn starch and cocoa powder and stir to combine. The mixture will be crumbly.Slowly whisk in the milk and coffee, whisking until mixture is smooth. Increase heat to medium high and continue to cook, stirring, for 5–10 minutes or until mixture starts to thicken. Remove it from the heat and stir in salt, vanilla and butter.Cool slightly and pour mixture into popsicle molds. Add sticks and freeze until set, at least 6 hours, or overnight. The number of fudgsicles you get will depend on the size of your mold; mine is fairly large and the recipe yielded 4 fudgsicles.

Cherry Hand Pies
FOR THE DOUGH:
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 teaspoon Sugar
2/3 cups Vegetable Shortening
1 cup All-purpose Flour, Plus 1 Tablespoon, Divided
1/4 cups Very Cold Water
1/2 teaspoons Almond Extract
FOR THE FILLING:
1-1/2 cup Pitted Cherries
1/2 cups Sugar
1/2 teaspoons Lemon Juice
1 teaspoon Cornstarch
1 teaspoon Cold Water

Preheat oven to 425ºF.For the dough: Toss 1 cup flour with salt and sugar in a bowl. Cut in shortening until mixture resembles mealy peas. In a small bowl, mix remaining 1 tablespoon flour with cold water and extract. Mix to make a paste and then add to crust mixture. Stir until it follows the fork. Shape into a bowl. Roll out 1/4 inch thick, then cut into rounds or desired shape.For the filling: Boil cherries with sugar and lemon juice in a saucepan on the stove on medium heat for 3–5 minutes. Mash with fork, leaving some large chunks of fruit. Mix cornstarch in small bowl with water, then add to boiling fruit. Continue to heat on medium until mixture thickens. Remove from heat and let cool.Add dollop of fruit filling to each cut out crust shape. Top and seal. Crimp edges and cut small incision in top of pie to prevent bubbling. Bake 12–13 minutes on a baking sheet lined with parchment paper until lightly brown. Cool, then enjoy.

Swiss Meringue Buttercream
4 Egg Whites
1-1/2 cup Granulated Sugar
1-1/2 cup Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature And Cut Into Tablespoons
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 teaspoon Almond Extract
1 pinch Fine Sea Salt

Place egg whites and sugar in a metal bowl of a stand mixer. Place bowl over a pan of simmering water, not touching the water. Whisk or stir constantly until sugar is dissolved and mixture comes to approximately 160ºF. If attempting without a thermometer, sugar should be dissolved with no graininess when a bit is rubbed between two fingers. It will be hot to the touch.Immediately place the bowl on the stand mixer and whip on high using the whisk attachment until frosting has become thick and glossy, forming a stiff peak. Continue to whip frosting until the bowl feels room temperature to the touch, a total of about 10 minutes.Switch the whisk attachment to the paddle attachment. With the mixer on low, drop in butter, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating until smooth after each addition. If frosting appears curdled or clumpy at any time, increase speed to medium-high and beat until smooth.Once all of the butter has been incorporated, mix in extracts and pinch of salt. If needed, continue beating until smooth.To frost cookies or cupcakes with the rose technique, tint frosting to the desired shade. Dollop frosting into a piping bag fitted with an Ateco #828 tip. Pipe frosting in a swirl, starting in the middle. For the watercolor effect, paint lines of a contrasting color food coloring up the sides of the bag before filling.Sweets frosted with Swiss meringue buttercream may be stored on the counter for a few days, or in the refrigerator. If storing in the refrigerator, bring to room temperature before serving.

Honeydew Strawberry Popsicles
3 cups Honeydew
2 Tablespoons Vanilla Sugar, Divided
1/2 Freshly Squeezed Lime Juice
1 cup Strawberries
1 Tablespoon Freshly Squeezed Lemon Juice

Peel honeydew and cut into cubes. Place in a medium container and add 1 tablespoon of sugar and the lime juice. Set to rest (I kept mine overnight in the fridge, but that’s optional).Wash, hull and chop strawberries. Place them in a small container and add remaining sugar and lemon juice. Set aside to rest (I left the container in the fridge overnight).Purée honeydew mixture in a blender till smooth. Rinse out blender and repeat with strawberries.Pour enough honeydew purée into each popsicle mold to fill about 2/3 full. Freeze until slushy, about 30 minutes, then place the popsicle stick and freeze until solid.Pour strawberry purée over honeydew layer. Freeze until solid (at least 2 hours).To release the pops, turn the popsicle molds sideways and run them under warm water 10–15 seconds.

Cowboy Sourdough Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
1 cup Fed Sourdough Starter
1-1/3 cup Buttermilk
2-1/2 cups All-purpose Flour
1-1/2 cup Granulated Sugar
1 stick Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature
1/2 cups Vegetable Oil
1/3 cups Parmesan Cheese, Grated
1-1/2 teaspoon Baking Soda
1/2 teaspoons Fine Salt
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
2 whole Large Eggs, Room Temperature
FOR THE BUTTERCREAM:
1/2 cups Plus 2 Tablespoons Egg Whites
1-1/4 cup Granulated Sugar
3 sticks Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature And Cut Into Cubes
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
1/2 cups Cookie Butter
FOR THE FROSTING:
8 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Room Temperature
1 stick Unsalted Butter, Room Temperature
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Extract
5 cups Powdered Sugar, Sifted
3 drops Blue Food Coloring

For the cowboy sourdough cake: In a large mixing bowl, combine fed sourdough starter, buttermilk, and all-purpose flour. Cover the bowl loosely with plastic wrap and let the mixture sit at room temperature until it has expanded a little bit, about 2 to 3 hours.Preheat oven to 350ºF and grease two 8-inch cake pans with baking spray, set aside.In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, beat the sugar and butter at a medium speed until pale and fluffy, about 2 to 4 minutes. Scrape the sides and bottom of the bowl, add the oil and mixture until blended. On a low speed mix in the Parmesan, baking soda, salt, and vanilla. The mixture will look a bit granular. Add the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.Using a rubber spatula, slowly and gently add the wet mixture in the starter-flour-milk mixture. Stir until smooth.Pour the batter into the prepared pans and bake for 25–30 minutes until a toothpick in the center comes out clean with a few moist crumbs. Let the cakes cool in the pans for 5 minutes before turning them onto a wire rack to cool completely.For the cookie butter Swiss meringue buttercream: Put the egg whites in a stand mixer’s bowl laying above water simmering in a small sauce pot, creating a double boiler. The bowl should not have contact with the water below. Lightly whisk the egg whites and sugar until a thermometer reads 160ºF. Fit the bowl to the stand mixer.Using the whisk attachment, whip the egg white mixture on a medium-high speed until stiff peaks form, about 8–10 minutes. At this point the mixer’s bowl should have cooled down to room temperature. Switch the whisk to the paddle attachment.Turn the mixer back on, this time to a low speed. Add butter, a few tablespoons at a time, followed by the vanilla. Once added, raise the speed to a medium-high speed and beat until silky, smooth, and lump-free, about 3–5 minutes. Add the cookie butter and beat until incorporated.For the blue lasso frosting: Put the cream cheese and butter in a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Beat on a medium-high speed until pale in color and lump-free. Add vanilla and then scrape the sides and bottom of the bowl.With the mixer’s speed on low, slowly add powdered sugar, scraping the bowl as needed. Beat again on a medium-high speed for a final 1 to 2 minutes. Add blue gel until the desired shade is reached.To assemble the cowboy sourdough cake: If the cake layers have domes, use a serrated knife to level off the tops. Put a dollop of frosting on the cake board. Place one layer on, spread on the blue lasso frosting, and then put on the second cake layer. Use an offset spatula to cover the cake with a dirty layer of the Swiss meringue buttercream. Place the cake in the freezer for 15 minutes. Apply a second thicker layer of the Swiss meringue buttercream. Chill again for another 15 minutes.Put blue lasso frosting in a pastry bag fitted with a shell tip. Pipe borders on the top and bottom of the cake.

Frosted Animal Cracker No-Churn Ice Cream
1 cup Frosted Animal Crackers, Plus More For Garnish
2 cups Cold Heavy Whipping Cream
1 teaspoon Good Vanilla Extract
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
2 Tablespoons Rainbow Sprinkles (I Used The Sprinkles That Were In The Bottom Of The Animal Cracker Bag)

Give animal crackers a rough chop. You’ll mix them into your ice cream, so keep that in mind.Whip the cream with a mixer on medium-high speed until firm peaks form, about 4 minutes. Fold in vanilla extract and sweetened condensed milk until combined.Gently fold in animal crackers and sprinkles, if using, until evenly distributed. Pour into metal loaf pan and garnish the top with more whole animal crackers. Freeze, covered, for at least 6 hours. Enjoy!

Strawberry & Cream Swiss Roll
FOR THE SPONGE CAKE:
70 grams Granulated Sugar, Plus 2 Tablespoons, Divided
3 Eggs, Separated
1 dash Salt
1 Tablespoon Hot Water
70 grams All-purpose Flour
FOR THE FILLING:
250 grams Fresh Strawberries, Divided
9 grams Vanilla Sugar
200 milliliters Double Cream
Icing Sugar, For Sprinkling

For the sponge cake: Beat 70 grams sugar, egg yolks and water in a bowl for about 5 minutes, until mixture is thick and frothy.Whisk egg whites with salt until stiff. Add remaining 2 tablespoons sugar and continue beating until egg whites are shiny.Carefully fold beaten egg whites and flour into egg yolk mixture. Spread the sponge mix (about 1 cm thick) onto parchment-paper-lined rectangular baking tray.Bake for approximately 6 minutes in the middle of a preheated 220ºC (425ºF) oven.Flip sponge with the paper on a fresh parchment paper, coat top parchment paper with a wet cloth, pull away the top parchment paper carefully. Cover sponge immediately with the inverted baking tray and let cool down completely.For the filling: Using a hand blender, mix 50 grams strawberries with vanilla sugar. Strain through a very fine sieve.Whip the cream with strawberry puree until stiff. Fold in the rest of the strawberries.Spread the strawberry cream over the sponge, leaving a 2 cm margin free around the sponge. Starting from the narrow side, roll up the sponge into a tight roll.Refrigerate Swiss Roll for about 30 minutes. Cut off both ends, sprinkle with icing sugar, and serve.

Mint Chip Ice Cream
2 cups Heavy Cream
1 cup Whole Milk
1 cup Fresh Mint Leaves, Or 1 1/2 Teaspoons Natural Mint Flavor
1/3 cups Pure Maple Syrup Or Sweetener Of Choice
1 pinch Salt
8 Large Egg Yolks
2/3 cups 60% Cacao Chocolate Chips, Finely Chopped

Place the cream, milk, mint leaves (omit if using mint flavor), maple syrup, and salt in the top of a double boiler (or a heat-proof bowl set over a pot of simmering water).Meanwhile, place the egg yolks into a heat-proof bowl. Whisk. Set aside.Once the cream mixture is very hot, slowly ladle about half into the egg yolks, whisking constantly. Return all to top of double boiler. Cook the custard, stirring frequently, until mixture thickens a bit and coats the back of a wooden spoon, about 20–30 minutes.Remove from heat and stir in the mint flavor (omit if you used fresh mint leaves). Allow to cool to room temperature, then cover and refrigerate it until very cold, about 4 hours.Churn custard according to your ice cream maker directions. About 5 minutes before your ice cream is done churning, add the chopped chocolate chips. Scoop into a freezer-safe container and freeze until firm. Or eat straight out of the ice cream maker for a more soft-serve consistency.Makes about 1 quart.Note: I used chocolate mint for the fresh mint leaves, but you can use regular mint as well.Custard very loosely based off of a recipe from Shaye Elliott of The Elliott Homestead.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Balsamic Strawberry Sponge Cake
FOR THE SPONGE CAKE:
3 whole Eggs, Room Temperature
1 cup Granulated Sugar
2/3 cups Unsalted Butter, Melted And Cooled Slightly
1 cup All-purpose Flour
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoons Salt
1 Tablespoon Lemon Juice
1 Tablespoon Lemon Zest
2 Tablespoons Milk
FOR THE BALSAMIC STRAWBERRIES:
2 cups Fresh Strawberries, Hulled And Halved
1-1/2 Tablespoon Granulated Sugar
1 Tablespoon Balsamic Vinegar
FOR THE TOPPING:
1 cup Whipping Cream
1 Tablespoon Powdered Sugar
1/2 cups Mint Leaves Or Basil Leaves

Preheat oven to 350ºF. Grease an 8-inch cake pan and line the bottom with parchment paper.In a standing mixer with a whisk attachment, whisk eggs and sugar on high speed for 5 minutes, until light and triple in volume. Stir in the melted butter.In a large bowl, sift together flour, baking powder and salt. Add the flour mixture to the egg mixture on low speed, and mix until just incorporated. Add lemon juice, zest and milk. Stir until batter is smooth.Pour the batter into the prepared pan and smooth the top. Bake for about 30 minutes, until a toothpick inserted into the cake comes out clean. Let cake cool in pan for 10 minutes. Run a paring knife around the edge of the cake to loosen it from the pan. Peel off the parchment paper circles. Let cool completely.While cake is baking, prepare the strawberries. Place them in a bowl and toss with sugar and balsamic vinegar. Cover the bowl and let stand for 30 minutes until the strawberries release the juices.Pierce holes in the cooled cake with a toothpick and spoon juice over the top of the cake.Beat whipping cream with powdered sugar until the mixture holds stiff peaks. Spread the whipped cream on top of the cake, then piled strawberries on top and decorate with basil or mint leaves. Drizzle more juice on top.

S’mores Ice Cream Bonbons
1 pint Heavy Whipping Cream
1 can (14 Oz. Size) Sweetened Condensed Milk
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
1 cup Toasted Marshmallows
3 cups Milk Chocolate Chips, Divided
1 Sleeve (abotu 4 Oz. Size) Graham Crackers
5 Tablespoons Butter, Melted, Divided

In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, add heavy whipping cream. Start beating slowly, and then once it starts to foam, increase speed whipping until soft peaks form.Carefully add sweetened condensed milk, gently so as to not to deflate the whipped cream. Add vanilla in the same manner. Add toasted marshmallows. Pour ice cream mixture into a 9×5-inch loaf pan and cover with aluminum foil. Place in freezer until hard.Melt 1 cup chocolate and 1 tablespoon butter (or oil) over double broiler. Place 1 tablespoon in the bottom of a mini-muffin pan. Spread with the back of the spoon until it evenly covers the bottom of each cup. Freeze until firm.Using a food processor, pulse a sleeve of graham crackers until fine crumbs remain. Add 2 tablespoons melted butter slowly until the mixture begins to clump. Once the chocolate layer is firm, add 1 tablespoon of graham cracker into each muffin cup and pack down with the back of a spoon. Freeze again until ice cream is set.Spoon a generous portion of the toasted marshmallow ice cream and level it so it completely fills each mini-muffin cup. Freeze again until firm. Use a butter knife if necessary to pop each frozen bonbon out of its mold. Freeze until melted chocolate is slightly cooled.Melt remainin 2 cups chocolate chips and remaining butter (or oil) in a double boiler. Place the bonbons side by side on a baking sheet and drizzle the melted chocolate over the tops and sides. Freeze again until set. Devour. I dare you not to!Ice cream recipe from A Happy Food Dance.

Perfect Vanilla Cheesecake
FOR THE CRUST:
2-1/2 cups Digestive Biscuit Crumbs
1/4 cups Sugar
1 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon
1/3 cups Butter, Melted
FOR THE CHEESECAKE:
4 cups Cream Cheese, Softened
1 cup Sugar
2 Large Eggs
2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
2 cups Greek Yogurt
FOR THE TOPPING:
1 cup Sour Cream
1/4 cups Icing Sugar
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract

Preheat the oven to 170ºC (325ºF or Gas 3). Grease a 9-inch springform pan and set aside.Mix together biscuit crumbs, sugar, cinnamon, and melted butter. Press the crumb mixture into the prepared pan, and bake for 10–15 minutes. Leave to cool completely on a wire rack.For the cheesecake: Turn oven temperature down to 140ºC (275ºF or Gas 1).Using a handheld or stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the cream cheese and sugar until combined. Beat in the eggs, one at a time, then mix in the vanilla and yogurt.Pour the batter onto the cooled crust, and bake for about 2 hours or until the edges are set, but the centre is still a little jiggly. Turn the oven off, leave the door slightly open, and allow the cheesecake to sit in the cooling oven for 1 hour.Remove the cheesecake from the oven and allow to cool completely on a wire rack, then chill in the fridge for at least 6–8 hours before slicing and serving.For the sour cream topping: Mix together sour cream, icing sugar, and vanilla. Spread the mixture over the top of the cooled cheesecake, and refrigerate until ready to serve.

Strawberry & Cream Cakes
FOR THE CAKE:
1 cup Butter
1-1/2 cup Granulated Sugar
3 cups Cake Flour
1/2 teaspoons Salt
2 teaspoons Baking Powder
1 cup Milk
1 teaspoon Almond Extract
5 Egg Whites
FOR THE FROSTING:
1 cup Freeze-dried Strawberries
1 cup Butter, Softened
4 cups Powdered Sugar
3 Tablespoons Heavy Cream
1 teaspoon Almond Extract
Salt To Taste

For the cake: Place butter in the bowl of a stand mixer. Cream butter for about 2 minutes until it is white in appearance. Add sugar to the butter and beat until fluffy.In a small bowl, combine flour, salt and baking powder. Set aside. In another bowl, combine milk and almond extract. Add flour mixture to the butter/sugar mixture alternately with the milk and almond extract.Beat the egg whites until they are stiff and form peaks. Add the stiffly beaten eggs to the cake batter. Fold the egg whites in gently. Do not over-mix at this point. If you do, your cake will become more dense.Grease and flour 9×11 cake pan. Pour the cake batter into the pan. Bake cake at 350ºF for 27–30 minutes or until the top bounces back when you touch it.Allow the cake to cool for 10 minutes, then loosen the edges and remove them from the pans to a wire rack, allowing them to cool completely. Transfer to freezer before cutting.For the frosting: Using a blender or food processor, process the freeze-dried strawberries into a powdery crumb. You should have around 1/2 cup. Set aside.With a handheld or stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, beat butter on medium speed until creamy, about 2 minutes. Add confectioners’ sugar, strawberry powder, cream, and extract with the mixer running on low. Increase to high speed and beat for 3 full minutes. Add 1/4 cup more confectioners’ sugar if frosting is too thin or 1 more tablespoon of cream if frosting is too thick. Add a pinch of salt if frosting is too sweet.Slice almond cake into three layers, frosting each.

Chocolate Mocha Zucchini Cake
FOR THE CAKE:
2 cups All-purpose Flour
2 cups Granulated Sugar
1/2 cups Dark Cocoa Powder, Sifted (look For Black Cocoa Powder)
1-1/2 teaspoon Ground Cinnamon (diamond)
1 teaspoon Baking Powder
1 teaspoon Baking Soda
1 teaspoon Fine Salt
2 Large Eggs
3/4 cups Greek Yogurt
1/4 cups Vegetable Oil
1/4 cups Brewed Coffee
2 teaspoons Pure Vanilla Extract
2 cups Shredded Zucchini (or Substitute Up To Half Shredded Yellow Summer Squash)
FOR THE GANACHE:
8 ounces, weight Semisweet Chocolate, Chopped
8 ounces, weight Heavy Cream

For the cake: Preheat oven to 350ºF, spray metal cake pan with Baker’s Joy, and wrap pan with insulated baking strips (optional, but they keep the cake from forming a hump in the middle).In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, sugar, cocoa, cinnamon, baking powder, baking soda, and salt; set aside. In a medium bowl, whisk together the eggs, greek yogurt, oil, coffee, and pre vanilla extract. Pour wet mixture into bowl containing the dry ingredients and mix well; add shredded zucchini and stir until combined.Pour batter into cake pan and bake for 30–35 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean. Remove from oven and cool completely before adding ganache.For the ganache: Place chopped chocolate in a heat-safe bowl; set aside. In a medium heavy-bottom saucepan, heat cream until just before it reaches the boiling point (small bubbles will form around the edges). Remove cream from heat and pour over chocolate. Let the chocolate and cream steep together for 2 minutes, then whisk gently until the two combine and become shiny, dark, and glossy.When cake is completely cool, pour ganache over cake; use an offset spatula to spread evenly. Chill cake until service (serve cold). Store leftovers in an airtight container in the fridge.

Salted Caramel Butter Bars
FOR THE CRUST:
4 sticks Butter, Softened To Room Temperature
2-1/2 cups Granulated Sugar
2 Tablespoons Vanilla Extract
4 cups Flour
FOR THE FILLING:
14 ounces, weight Caramel Candies
1/3 cups Heavy Cream
1/2 teaspoons Vanilla Extract
2 Tablespoons Sea Salt

Preheat oven to 325ºF and grease a 9 x 13 pan liberally with softened butter or shortening. Set up a stand mixer with the paddle attachment and combine the butter and sugar in its bowl for the crust. Beat them together well until fluffy. Add the vanilla next. Then turn the speed to low and slowly add the flour until it is just worked in to be a soft dough. Divide the dough in half and press the first half out into a thin, even layer in the prepared pan. Bake it for 15 minutes, then let it cool.While the crust bakes and cools, prepare the filling. Combine the caramels, heavy cream and sugar in a large, microwave safe bowl. Microwave it for a minute and then give it a stir. Then microwave it for another 30 seconds and stir it again. If it still is not completely melted let it go for another 30 seconds and stir it again until it is completely smooth and shiny. Pour the filling evenly over the bottom crust and then sprinkle the salt evenly over the caramel.Take the second half of dough and crumble it in an even layer on top of the caramel. Bake the assemble bars for another 15–20 minutes, until just golden. Let the pan cool for about 20 minutes, then cover it and refrigerate it for a couple of hours at least. This makes them easier to cut. Then cut the bars into the size you want and serve them!

Cheesecake
FOR THE CRUST:
2 cups Graham Cracker Crumbs
1/4 cups Almonds, Crushed Or Finely Ground
8 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter, melted
FOR THE FILLING:
16 ounces, weight Cream Cheese, Softened
3 whole Eggs
1 cup Sugar
2 cups Sour Cream
1 teaspoon Orange Zest
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
FOR THE TOPPING:
1 cup Strawberries, Or Fruit Of Choice, Fruit Sauce

Preheat oven to 325°F.Stir together crust ingredients until mixture resembles a crumbly moist sand. Line an 8-inch lightly greased springform pan with crumb-butter mixture. Use the bottom of a glass to evenly press the crumbs onto the bottom and an inch up the sides of pan. Refrigerate.For fhe filling, in the bowl of an electric mixer, beat cream cheese on medium speed until smooth and creamy. Add eggs one at a time and beat well, scraping down bowl between additions.Pour in sugar and beat 2 minutes. Add sour cream, orange zest and vanilla. Continue beating on medium until all ingredients are incorporated, but not overmixed and mixture is smooth and creamy.Pour the filling into the crust-lined pan. Place this in the middle rack of the oven. Fill another cakepan half way up with water and place on lowest rack of the oven. This maintains some moisture level in the oven and keeps cheesecake from cracking.Bake for 40–50 minutes until cheesecake is mostly firm with some jiggle in the center. Take out and let cool in pan completely. Afterwards, refrigerate and chill, loosely covered for unto 4 hours.Top with fruit, mint or berry sauce when serving (optional).Recipe adapted from Tyler Florence’s Ultimate Cheesecake.

Pumpkin Chocolate Fudge
1-1/2 cup Dark Chocolate
5-3/4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil
1/3 cups Canned Pumpkin Puree
2-1/2 teaspoons Pumpkin Pie Spice

In a microwave safe bowl, combine dark chocolate and coconut oil. Heat in the microwave in 30-second intervals, stirring in between. It should take about 2–3 minutes for the mix to melt.Once coconut oil/chocolate mix is melted, add pureed pumpkin and pumpkin pie spice. Stir to combine.Pour into a lined 9×5 loaf pan and set in the freezer for at least 1 hour. After the fudge has set, remove from the freezer and cut into slices. Serve or store in the fridge for up to a week.

Raspberry Charlotte
FOR THE FILLING:
2 Tablespoons Water
1-1/4 teaspoon Unflavored Gelatin
3 whole Large Egg Yolks
2 teaspoons Cornstarch
1 pound Frozen Raspberries, Thawed
2/3 cups Sugar
2 Tablespoons Unsalted Butter
1 pinch Salt
1-3/4 cup Heavy Cream
FOR THE JAM:
1/2 teaspoons Unflavored Gelatin
1 Tablespoon Fresh Lemon Juice
1/2 cups Seedless Raspberry Jam
FOR THE CAKE:
2/3 cups Cake Flour
6 Tablespoons Sugar
3/4 teaspoons Baking Powder
1/8 teaspoons Salt
1/4 cups Vegetable Oil
1 whole Large Egg
2 Tablespoons Water
1 teaspoon Vanilla Extract
3 whole Large Egg Whites
1/4 teaspoons Cream Of Tartar
Fresh Raspberries For Garnish

For the filling: Add water to a large bowl and sprinkle with gelatin. Set aside.Whisk together egg yolks and cornstarch. Set aside.Add raspberries, sugar, butter and salt to a saucepan over medium heat. Whisk frequently and cook until the raspberries start to break down, about 4–6 minutes. Slowly add 1/2 cup of the hot raspberry mixture to the egg yolk/cornstarch mixture. Whisk continuously so you don’t scramble the egg yolks. Return the tempered mixture back into the saucepan and cook until the mixture bubbles and thickens, whisking constantly, about 1 minute.Pour the raspberry mixture through a fine mesh strainer set over the bowl with gelatin, pressing the solids with a spatula until all that remains are the seeds. Discard seeds and stir until gelatin is dissolved. Let thicken at room temperature for 30 minutes.For the jam: Sprinkle gelatin over lemon juice in a small bowl and let sit for 5 minutes.Heat the seedless raspberry jam in another small bowl in the microwave, 30 seconds at a time, until the jam is nice a fluid. Add the softened gelatin to the warm jam and whisk until combined. Set aside.For the cake: Preheat oven to 350ºF. Lightly grease an 8-inch square and 8-inch round cake pan. Cut parchment paper to fit the bottom of each pan and lightly grease the parchment paper as well.Whisk flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt together in medium bowl.In another bowl, whisk together oil, egg, water and vanilla extract. Whisk into flour mixture until smooth.Using a stand mixer, whisk egg whites and cream of tartar on medium-high speed until soft peaks form, about 3–4 minutes.Add 1/3 of egg whites to batter. Whisk gently until mixture is lightened. Using a rubber spatula, gently fold remaining egg whites into batter.Pour 1 cup of the batter into the round cake pan and spread out evenly. Pour remaining batter into the square pan and spread out evenly. You want the cakes to be flat and not domed in the middle. Bake for 8–11 minutes, until the cake bounces back in the middle. You do not want the cakes to brown. The round cake will be done before the square cake since it has less batter. Just keep a close eye on them.Allow cakes to cool in pans, on a wire rack for 5 minutes. Invert cakes directly onto the wire rack and remove parchment paper. Cool completely, about 15 minutes.Once cooled, place round cake on a serving dish. Add 2 tablespoons of jam mixture on top. Spread it out over the surface of the cake with a small offset spatula. Place the ring from a 9-inch springform pan around the cake, leaving equal space on all sides. Leave clasp of ring loose.Trim off 1/8 inch from all sides of the square cake. Spread out 2 more tablespoons of the jam mixture over the square cake. Cut into 4 equal-sized long strips.Place each strip vertically around the round cake. Carefully nestle the ends together neatly. Once you have all the pieces together, fasten the clasp of the springform pan to close it.Whisk heavy cream in a stand mixer until soft peaks form. Transfer 1/3 of the whipped cream into the raspberry curd we made earlier and gently whisk until mixture is lightened. Add in the rest of the whipped cream. Fold gently with a rubber spatula until it is mixed thoroughly and no white streaks are left.Pour filling into the center of the cake ring. Spread out evenly. Drizzle the remaining jam mixture over the top. Swirl around with a knife in the center, being careful to not go into the cake edges. Place fresh raspberries around the edge. Refrigerate for at least 5 hours and up to 24 hours.When unmolding, run a paring knife around the edge of the ring before releasing the clasp to be extra sure nothing sticks. Let stand at room temperature for 20 minutes before slicing and serving. Warm up a knife under hot water and wipe dry between cuts. This will make for neater slices.Recipe from America’s Test Kitchen.

Red, White and Blueberry Galettes (Gluten-Free)
FOR THE CRUST:
1 cup White Rice Flour, Plus More For Dusting
3 Tablespoons Potato Starch
1/4 teaspoons Xanthan Gum
1 stick Cold Unsalted Butter, Diced
4 Tablespoons Ice Water
1 Large Egg, Beaten With 1 Tablespoon Water
FOR THE FILLING:
1 pint Blueberries (6 Ounces)
1 pint Strawberries
1 teaspoon Cornstarch Or Arrowroot Starch
1 Tablespoon Coconut Or Cane Sugar, Plus More For Sprinkling
1 teaspoon Fresh Lemon Juice

In a small food processor, pulse the rice flour, potato starch and xanthan gum to combine. Working quickly, add the cold diced butter and pulse a dozen times or so until the mixture resembles fine crumbs. Add the ice water 1 tablespoon at a time until the crust begins to clump together and stand tall against the walls of the processor. (I used 3 tablespoons total).Transfer the gluten-free tart dough to a work surface and form into two equal balls. Wrap each separately in plastic wrap and pat it down into a thin disk. Chill in the refrigerator for 1 hour, or up to 3 days in advance.Preheat oven to 425ºF.While the crust is chilling, prepare the filling. In a medium mixing bowl, toss together blueberries, strawberries, corn or arrowroot starch, sugar and lemon juice until coated. Set aside.Let the dough stand at room temperature for a few minutes before handling. Then, unwrap and lay on a work surface dusted with rice flour. (I rolled out my dough directly on parchment paper to make transferring it to the baking sheet easier. You can anchor it with a can if it begins to slide around while you roll.) Place a piece of plastic wrap or parchment paper over the dough and roll out, working from the center, until it’s about 1/4-1/8 inch thickness and a 9-inch diameter. If the dough feels crumbly, let it warm up slightly, then continue working. Repeat with the second ball.Divide the berries between the galettes, leaving a 1 to 2 inch lip on the sides. Carefully fold the flaps of dough onto itself in large creases. If it breaks, don’t stress: you can patch it up, or use your hands to gently press the outside back together. I found it helpful to use my knife to loosen the dough flaps and help me fold.Transfer the gluten-free berry galettes to a baking sheet (lined with parchment, if not already using some). Brush the sides of the crust with the egg wash and sprinkle with additional sugar. Bake in the oven for 35–40 minutes, until the filling bubbles and the crust is golden brown.Allow the galette to cool slightly on the pan (don’t worry if the juices leak). Then cut into slices or serve on a platter with scoops of vanilla ice cream (red, white and blue baby!).

Easy Vanilla Bean Ice Cream
1/3 cups Milk (at Least 6% Fat)
1 Vanilla Bean
4 Egg Yolks
1/2 cups Brown Sugar
1-3/4 cup Heavy Cream
Strawberry Sauce, To Serve (optional, See Blog Post)

In a saucepan or small pot, boil the milk and let it cool. Cut the vanilla bean lengthwise and scrape the seeds with a knife or a teaspoon. Stir the seeds, vanilla bean, egg yolks and sugar into the cooled milk. Cook over low heat for about 15 minutes or until thickened, stirring occasionally and let cool. Remove the vanilla bean from the mixture.Whip the cream and stir it gently into the vanilla mixture.Transfer into a bowl of your ice cream maker and start the churning (make sure you froze the bowl of your ice cream maker for at least 8 hours in advance or according to the instructions). After 30 minutes of churning, check your ice cream every couple of minutes to see weather it’s ready. It should be thick but not firm.Transfer the ice cream into a container and freeze for about 2 hours. Serve with strawberry sauce (optional). Enjoy!Makes a little under 1 quart.

Banana and Walnut Mini Cakes
3 whole Ripe Bananas
3 whole Eggs
4 Tablespoons Coconut Oil, Melted
1 Tablespoon Vanilla Essense
1/2 cups Almond Flour
1/2 cups Coconut Flour
1/2 cups Tapioca Flour
1 Tablespoon Baking Powder
1/2 cups Chopped Walnuts
4 Tablespoons Honey
1 Tablespoon Grated Nutmeg

Preheat oven to 180ºC (355ºF).In a bowl, mash banans. Add eggs, coconut oil and vanilla. Add the rest of the ingredients and fold in well, ensuring everything is combined.Evenly distribute the mixture into cake cases and bake for approximately 20–25 minutes, or until a knife placed in one of the cakes comes out clean.

Chocolate Strawberry Cream Cheese Fluff
1-1/3 cup Heavy Whipping Cream, Plus 1/4 Cup If Needed
4 Tablespoons Agave, Or Other Sweetner
4 ounces, weight Softened Cream Cheese
1/4 cups Chocolate Chips
4 Large Strawberries, Diced

Use electric mixer to whip 1 1/3 cup heavy whipping cream for 5 minutes. Add sweetener and mix again for another 2 minutes. Add cream cheese and mix until smooth. If a bit chunky, add remaining 1/4 cup heavy whipping cream and mix another 2–3 minutes.Use blender or food processor to chop chocolate chips.Add a couple of tablespoons of fluff to a small dessert cup. Sprinkle with chocolate, top with strawberries. Repeat, enjoy!

