Gingerbread Brownies 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 1/4 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
4 large eggs
3 tablespoons molasses (not robust/blackstrap)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves

Place a rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Coat a 9x9 inch baking pan with nonstick spray. Line pan with 2 overlapping layers of parchment, leaving a 2 inch overhang on all sides. Coat parchment with nonstick spray.
Whisk sugar, cocoa powder, and salt in a large bowl. Melt butter in a medium heatproof bowl in the microwave or in a medium pot over medium heat. Immediately add hot butter to sugar mixture and stir with a wooden spoon or rubber spatula until smooth. Add eggs one at a time, stirring vigorously with spoon or spatula after each addition, until batter is thick, shiny, and smooth. Stir in molasses and vanilla. Using a sifter or fine-mesh sieve, sift in flour, cinnamon, ginger, baking powder, and cloves. Stir until well incorporated, then beat vigorously for 40 strokes.
Transfer batter to prepared pan; smooth top. Bake brownie until top is firm to the touch, edges are set, center is moist but not uncooked, and a tester or paring knife inserted into the center comes out with moist crumbs (not runny batter) attached, 25–25 minutes.
Transfer to a wire rack and let brownie cool completely in pan. Using parchment overhang, lift brownie out of pan and transfer to a cutting board. Cut into 16 squares.

Christmas Bombe with Spiced Cake and Chocolate-Brandy Glaze 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/2 cup light corn syrup
1/2 cup sugar
2 large egg whites
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
2 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup heavy cream
3/4 cup sweetened condensed milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/4 cups dried, bright orange apricots (about 8 ounces), halved
1 1/4 cups Luxardo or maraschino cherries (about 7 ounces), halved, rinsed, patted dry
1 1/4 cups unsalted pistachios (about 6 ounces), coarsely chopped
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
6 ounces bittersweet chocolate (70–72% cacao), coarsely chopped
5 large eggs, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon finely grated orange zest
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
4 1/2 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons heavy cream
Pinch of kosher salt
1 tablespoons brandy (optional)
A 9 inch round cake pan; a cake board

Spray a large bowl (at least 12-cup capacity; the stainless steel bowl of a stand mixer is perfect) with nonstick spray, then line with plastic wrap, leaving a generous overhang.
Heat corn syrup, sugar, and 1/4 cup water in a small saucepan over low until sugar is melted. Increase heat to medium and cook until an instant-read thermometer registers 240 degrees F, about 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, using an electric mixer on medium-high speed (or a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat egg whites and cream of tartar in a large bowl until soft peaks form. Reduce mixer speed to low and carefully add sugar syrup to egg whites in a slow and steady stream. Increase speed to high and beat until mixture is light, glossy, and fluffy, 6–8 minutes.
Using electric mixer on high speed, beat cream cheese in another large bowl until creamy, about 3 minutes. Add heavy cream, milk, vanilla, and salt and beat until smooth.
Whisk one–third of meringue into cream cheese mixture to lighten. Gently fold remaining meringue into cream cheese mixture. Fold in apricots, cherries, and pistachios.
Pour mixture into prepared bowl, smooth top, then bring plastic up and over bombe, pressing against bottom of bowl to compact. Freeze until hard, at least 12 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat cake pan with nonstick spray. Line bottom of pan with parchment paper; lightly coat parchment with nonstick spray.
Heat butter and chocolate in a large heatproof bowl set over a medium saucepan of barely simmering water (do not let bowl touch water), stirring, until chocolate is melted and smooth.
Using electric mixer on medium speed, beat eggs and sugar in another large bowl until pale and tripled in volume, 10–12 minutes.
Whisk flour, baking powder, cinnamon, orange zest, cloves, nutmeg, and salt in a medium bowl. Whisk dry ingredients into chocolate mixture until well combined. Using a rubber spatula, fold about one-third of egg mixture into chocolate mixture to lighten, then fold chocolate mixture into remaining egg mixture until combined.
Pour batter into prepared pan; smooth surface. Bake cake until center is set and sides are beginning to brown, 45–50 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack and let cake cool completely in pan (cake will sink a little in the center as it cools).
Trim cake board to fit inside bowl with mousse (slightly smaller than diameter of bowl). Remove cake from pan and trim to flatten top, then trim to size of cake board. Place cake on board, then place board on a wire rack set on a sheet tray.
Rub bowl with a very hot, wet towel to defrost slightly; remove plastic wrap from top of bowl. Invert bowl upside down on top of cake. Using plastic, gently pull so mousse comes free; adjust to center mousse on cake, if needed. Peel off plastic.
Place chocolate in a medium bowl. Heat cream in a small pot over medium until hot but not boiling. Pour over chocolate, let sit 5 minutes, then stir until smooth. Add salt and brandy (if using) and stir to combine.
Spoon glaze over bombe, letting it drip over sides to coat thoroughly.
Transfer bombe to a platter. Cut into wedges with a hot dry knife (run knife under hot water and wipe dry between slices).
Mousse bombe can be made 1 week ahead. Keep frozen. Cake can be baked 1 day ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.

Frosted Malt-Chocolate Cookies 
10 ounces semisweet chocolate wafers (disks, pistoles, fèves; about 2 cups), divided
3/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 tablespoons malted milk powder
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for parchment paper
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 teaspoons vanilla extract
2/3 cup plus 1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
Flaky sea salt
A 1 1/2-inch-diameter cookie cutter

Pulse 6 oz. chocolate wafers in a food processor until finely chopped. Transfer to a large bowl.
Pulse brown sugar, cocoa powder, malted milk powder, baking powder, kosher salt, and 2 cups flour in food processor several times to combine. Add butter and pulse until pieces are broken up into bits no larger than a pea. Add to bowl with chocolate and toss to combine.
Stir vanilla and 2/3 cup cream in a measuring glass to combine, then slowly drizzle over chocolate mixture, mixing with a fork all the while. Mixture will look dry once you’ve added all the cream. Knead dough a few times in the bowl (it will not come together and will look crumbly), then transfer to a large piece of plastic wrap. Bring the edges of plastic up and over dough and press down to incorporate floury parts, then wrap tightly. Use the heel of your hand to press down firmly on the dough, forcing it to tightly fill out the plastic. This will help the dough adhere into a single mass and help the flour hydrate. Chill dough until firm, at least 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Roll out dough between 2 sheets of floured parchment paper to 3/4 inch thick (you might not have to roll it very much). Punch out rounds with cookie cutter as close together as possible. Transfer biscuits to a parchment-lined baking sheet and freeze 10 minutes.
Bake biscuits, rotating baking sheet halfway through, until firm to the touch around the edges, 13–18 minutes. Let cool on baking sheet.
Meanwhile, heat corn syrup, remaining 4 oz. chocolate, and remaining 1/2 cup cream in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water (bowl should not be touching the water), stirring often, until chocolate is melted and mixture is completely smooth. Set bowl with frosting into a large bowl of ice water and let cool, stirring occasionally, until thickened but still pourable and shiny. Spoon a scant tablespoonful of frosting onto each biscuit; sprinkle with sea salt.
Dough can be made 1 day ahead; keep chilled. Biscuits (without frosting) can be baked 2 days ahead; store airtight at room temperature.

Spiced and Glazed Molasses Cookies 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup whole wheat flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon kosher salt
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1 1/2 teaspoons finely ground black pepper, plus more for sprinkling
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 large egg, room temperature
1/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon mild-flavored (light) molasses
3/4 cup powdered sugar
1 tablespoon (or more) milk
Raw sugar (for sprinkling)

Whisk all-purpose flour, whole wheat flour, baking soda, salt, ginger, cinnamon, cloves, and 1 1/2 tsp. pepper in a medium bowl to combine.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed,beat brown sugar and butter in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add egg and beat to incorporate. Add 1/3 cup molasses and mix just to combine. Reduce mixer speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients; beat just until incorporated. Pat dough together and wrap in plastic. Chill until firm, about 1 hour.
Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Scoop out level tablespoonfuls of dough and roll between the palms of your hands into smooth balls. Place on 2 parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing about 2 inch apart (you should be able to fit about 12 on each sheet).
Bake cookies, rotating baking sheets top to bottom and back to front halfway through, until just firm around the edges, 9–12 minutes (if you like chewier cookies, bake less, and if a crispier cookie is your thing, bake a little longer). Let cookies cool about 5 minutes on baking sheets, then transfer to wire racks and let cool completely.
Repeat with remaining dough, using fresh parchment paper on baking sheets.
Whisk powdered sugar, milk, and remaining 1 Tbsp. molasses in a medium bowl until smooth. The glaze should be very thick and glossy but still pourable. If needed, add more milk or water 1/2-teaspoonful at a time until you get to the right consistency. Drizzle glaze over cookies and sprinkle with raw sugar and more pepper.
Cookies can be baked and glazed 2 days ahead. Once glaze is set, store airtight at room temperature, or freeze unglazed cookies up to 1 month in resealable plastic bags.

Cranberry Spice  inchTurkey inch Cupcakes with Vanilla Cream Cheese Frosting 
1 1/4 cups sifted all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon salt
8 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1/4 cup water
1 cup fresh or frozen cranberries
4 tablespoons unsalted butter
4 cups sifted confectioners' sugar
1/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
6 ounces cream cheese
1/4 pound each brown, white, black, and orange fondant
Fondant roller
Piping gel
144 pieces of candy corn

To make the cupcakes: Preheat the oven to 350˚F, and line two cupcake pans with twelve paper baking cups each. Sift together the flour, baking powder, cinnamon, nutmeg, and salt in a bowl, and set aside.
In the bowl of a stand mixer or in a bowl with a handheld electric mixer, cream together the butter and sugar until light and fluffy, approximately 3 to 5 minutes.
Add each egg slowly, one at a time, mixing after each addition.
Add one third of the flour mixture to the butter mixture, followed by one third of the water. Mix slowly. Then add another third of the flour mixture, followed by another third of the water. Mix slowly again. Finally, add the last third of the flour mixture and the last third of the water. Mix until all the ingredients are incorporated.
Scrape down the bowl, and add the cranberries. Fold in using a spatula until the cranberries are scattered throughout the batter.
Using a standard-size ice cream scoop, fill each baking cup so that it is two-thirds full. Bake for 18 to 20 minutes or until a toothpick inserted comes out clean.
Let the cupcakes cool and then frost with Georgetown Cupcake's signature swirl (see note)
In the bowl of a stand mixer or in a bowl with a handheld electric mixer or in a bowl with a handheld electric mixer, mix all the ingredients for approximately 3 to 5 minutes, until frosting is light and airy. Frost each cupcake with a thick layer of the frosting using an offset spatula.
Roll out a small ball of brown fondant, approximately the size of a golf ball, to form the body of your turkey. Then roll out a ball of brown fondant, approximately half the size of the first ball, to form the head of your turkey. Attach the head to the body using piping gel or water.
Roll out two small balls of white fondant, each approximately the size of a pea, to form the eyeballs of your turkey.
Roll out two small balls of black fondant, each approximately the size of half a pea, to form the pupils of your turkey’s eyes. Using piping gel or water, attach the pupils to the eyeballs, and the eyeballs to the turkey’s head.
Roll out a small piece of orange fondant, and shape it into a crescent to form the turkey’s beak. Attach it to the turkey’s head using piping gel or water.
Roll out four small pieces of brown fondant and shape them into rounded teardrops to form feathers.
Let the fondant turkey and feathers set for 5 to 10 minutes, and then place the turkey on top of a cupcake, with the feathers placed behind.
Line up six pieces of candy corn, pointed side down on the brown fondant feathers behind the turkey’s body to form another layer of feathers.

Hazelnut Lace Sandwich Cookies 
1/2 cup blanched hazelnuts
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
6 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/4 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons heavy cream
2 tablespoons pure maple syrup
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
1/3 cup blueberry jam, strained
Finely grated zest of 1 lime

Pulse hazelnuts, flour, and salt in a food processor until nuts are finely ground; set aside.
Cook butter in a medium saucepan over medium heat until butter foams, then browns, about 5 minutes. Let cool about 5 minutes, then add granulated sugar, cream, maple syrup, vanilla, and 1 Tbsp. water and stir to incorporate. Return saucepan to medium heat and bring to a boil; cook, without stirring, 30 seconds. Remove pan from heat and stir in hazelnut mixture. Scrape batter into a medium heatproof bowl and let cool, stirring occasionally to reincorporate the butter.
Meanwhile, place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F.
Scoop out rounded teaspoonfuls of batter and roll between the palms of your hands into smooth balls. Place on 2 parchment-lined baking sheets at least 3 inch apart. Because these cookies spread so much during baking, give each ball plenty of space. You should be able to fit 8 per sheet and will need to bake in 2 batches for a total of 32 cookies.
Bake cookies, rotating baking sheets top to bottom and front to back halfway through, until they spread into thin lacy disks and are deep golden brown around the edges, 10–14 minutes. Let cool on baking sheets. Repeat with remaining batter, using fresh parchment paper on baking sheets.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat butter in a medium bowl until light, about 1 minute. Add powdered sugar and beat until pale, about 30 seconds. Add jam about 1 tablespoonful at a time, beating until smooth after each addition, then beat in lime zest.
Carefully remove cooled cookies from parchment. Using a small offset spatula, spread 1–2 tsp. filling across flat sides of half of cookies. Top with remaining cookies to create sandwiches.
Cookies can be baked 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature, separated by layers of parchment paper to prevent sticking.

Simple Vanilla Jam Drops 
1 x quantity unrolled Vanilla Snap Cookie dough
1/2 cup (160g) raspberry jam

Place the butter, sugar and vanilla in a food processor and process until smooth.
Add the flour, egg and extra egg yolk and process until a smooth dough forms.
Preheat oven to 180 degrees C (350 degrees F). Roll tablespoons of the dough into balls and place on lightly greased baking trays lined with non-stick baking paper. Flatten slightly and, using your fingertip, make an indent in each round. Fill each indent with 1/4 teaspoon of the jam. Bake for 12–14 minutes or until golden. Allow to cool on trays for 10 minutes before transferring onto wire racks to cool completely.

Nutter Butter® Cookies 
2 cups (9 ounces) all-purpose flour, such as Gold Medal, plus more for dusting
6 tablespoons (3 ounces) unsalted butter, creamy and soft—about 68 degrees F
1/3 cup (3 ounces) creamy peanut butter, such as Skippy
1 cup (7 ounces) sugar
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon Diamond Crystal kosher salt (half as much if iodized)
2 large egg whites (1/4 cup (2 1/4 ounces))
6 tablespoons | 3 ounces unsalted butter, creamy and soft—about 68 degrees F
1/3 cup | 3 ounces creamy peanut butter, such as Skippy
1 tablespoon | 3/4 ounce honey
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon Diamond Crystal kosher salt (half as much if iodized)
1 cup | 4 ounces organic powdered sugar, sifted

Sift flour (if using a cup measure, spoon into the cup and level with a knife before sifting).
Combine butter, peanut butter, sugar, baking soda, and salt in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Mix on low speed to moisten, then increase to medium and cream until fluffy and light, about 5 minutes. Beat the whites with a fork until foamy and thin, then add to the butter and sugar in four additions, letting each incorporate before adding the next. Scrape the bowl and beater with a flexible spatula, then resume mixing on low. Sprinkle in the flour, and mix to form a soft dough.
Knead against the sides of the bowl to form a smooth ball, divide in half, and flatten into discs. Use immediately, or wrap in plastic and refrigerate for up to 1 week; soften for 30 minutes at room temperature, then knead on a bare work surface until pliable and smooth.
Adjust oven rack to middle position and preheat to 350 degrees F. On a flour-dusted surface, roll the dough until 1/2 inch thick. Sprinkle with flour, flip, sprinkle again, and roll just shy of 1/8 inch. Slide an offset spatula under the dough to loosen. Cut into  inchpeanuts inch with a 3-inch bikini cookie cutter (see Cooks' Note) or into simple 2 1/4-inch rounds and arrange on a parchment-lined aluminum baking sheet, leaving 1/4 inch between them. If you like, gently score the cutouts with a bench scraper to make a diamond pattern. Gather scraps, re-roll, and cut as before. The remaining scraps can also be baked, to grind for crumbs.
Bake until wafers are firm and dry, about 15 minutes. Cool completely on the baking sheet. Use immediately, or transfer to an airtight container and store for up to a week at room temperature or a month in the fridge.
Combine butter, peanut butter, honey, vanilla, and salt in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Mix on low speed to moisten, then sprinkle in the powdered sugar a little at a time. Once fully incorporated, increase to medium and beat until the creme is soft and light, about 5 minutes, pausing to scrape the bowl and beater halfway through. Transfer to a pastry bag fitted with a 1/2-inch plain tip.
Pipe 1/4 ounce (2 teaspoons) creme into the center of half of the rounds or 1/8 ounce (1 teaspoon) into each  inchlobe inch of a peanut. Sandwich with the remaining wafers; there are extras to account for breakage. Transfer to an airtight container and refrigerate until the filling has set, about 15 minutes. Store up to 1 week at room temperature or up to a month in the fridge; serve at room temperature.
Cookie Crumbs: Grind broken wafers and scraps in a food processor until fine; freeze in a quart zip-top bag for up to 6 months. Use to replace the graham cracker crumbs in Souffléed Cheesecake or bake into a crumb crust.
Vegan: Replace the butter in the dough and filling with an equal amount of refined coconut oil and omit the egg whites in the dough. Refrigerate for 15 minutes before rolling the dough.
Gluten-Free: Replace the all-purpose flour with 4 ounces (1 1/4 cups) oat flour, 3 ounces (2/3 cup) white rice flour, and 2 ounces (1/2 cup) coconut flour.

Double Chocolate Cake with Peppermint-Chocolate Frosting 
Nonstick vegetable cooking spray
1/2 cup unsweetened applesauce
1 1/4 teaspoons baking powder, divided
2 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped
2/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/3 cups mayonnaise
1 cup granulated sugar
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pound, 3 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup refined coconut oil
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon peppermint extract
1 pound, 5 ounces bittersweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
2 candy canes, lightly crushed
2 (9 inch) round cake pans; a 1 inch pastry brush

Position a rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat cake pans with nonstick spray. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper; lightly coat parchment with nonstick spray.
Whisk applesauce and 1 tsp. baking powder in a small bowl. Mix chocolate and cocoa powder in a medium bowl. Pour 1 3/4 cups boiling water over and whisk until chocolate is melted. Sift flour, baking soda, salt, and remaining 1/4 tsp. baking powder into another medium bowl.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat mayonnaise, granulated sugar, and brown sugar in a large bowl (or use a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment) until well blended, about 3 minutes. Add half of applesauce mixture and beat to blend. Add remaining applesauce mixture, then beat in vanilla. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with chocolate mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients, beating to blend after each addition and occasionally scraping down sides of bowl. Divide batter among prepared pans; smooth top.
Bake cakes, rotating pans halfway through, until center is set and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 40–45 minutes. Transfer pans to a wire rack and let cakes cool 10 minutes. Run a knife around sides of cakes and invert onto wire rack; remove parchment. Let cool.
Heat chocolate, coconut oil, vanilla, and salt in a medium heatproof bowl set over a medium pot of barely simmering water (bottom of bowl should not touch water), stirring occasionally, or in short bursts in the microwave, stirring in between bursts, until chocolate is melted and smooth. Whisk in peppermint extract and 1/4 cup water. Chill, stirring every 5 minutes, until frosting thickens, about 25 minutes. If frosting gets too thick, gently reheat over pot of simmering water.
Heat chocolate in a medium heatproof bowl set over a medium pot of barely simmering water (bottom of bowl should not touch water), stirring occasionally, or in short bursts in the microwave, stirring in between bursts, until chocolate is melted and smooth.
Dip clean, dry pastry brush into melted chocolate. Brush a stripe of chocolate about 3 inch long and 1/8 inch thick on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Chill. Repeat process on second parchment-lined baking sheet. Swap trays and go over original brush strokes, repeating and chilling in between coatings and gently reheating chocolate if needed, until stems are 1/4 inch thick.
When stems are thick enough, sprinkle one end with crushed candy canes. Chill until set, about 10 minutes.
Spread 1 Tbsp. frosting in the center of a platter. Place 1 cake layer, domed side down, on platter. Spread 1 1/2 cups frosting evenly over top. Place remaining cake layer, domed side down, over frosting.
Spread top and sides of cake with remaining 2 cups frosting, swirling top decoratively. Press chocolate stems into frosting on sides of cake. Serve at room temperature.
Cake can be made 3 days ahead; wrap tightly in plastic and chill, or freeze up to 2 weeks. Frosting can be made 5 days ahead; chill, or freeze up to 1 month. Gently reheat over pot of simmering water or in short bursts in the microwave, stirring in between bursts. Chocolate stems can be made 3 days ahead; keep chilled.

Crispy Whole Wheat Graham Crackers 
3/4 cup (5 1/2 ounces) sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon Diamond Crystal kosher salt (half as much if iodized)
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup (3 ounces) golden syrup, such as Lyle’s, sorghum, unsulfured molasses (not blackstrap), or honey
1 1/2 sticks (6 ounces) unsalted butter, solid but creamy—about 70 degrees F
2 1/2 cups (12 ounces) whole wheat flour (not stone-ground or white whole wheat), plus more for dusting

Combine sugar, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, vanilla, golden syrup, and butter in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Mix on low speed to moisten, then increase to medium and beat until somewhat light, about 3 minutes. Reduce speed to low, add whole wheat flour, and mix to form a soft dough.
Scrape dough onto a work surface and knead gently to form a ball. Divide in half. Use immediately or wrap in plastic and refrigerate for up to 1 week; soften for 30 minutes at room temperature, then knead on a bare work surface until pliable and smooth.
Adjust oven rack to middle position and preheat to 350 degrees F. Generously flour a large sheet of parchment and place one portion of dough in the center. Pat into a 5-by-6-inch rectangle, sprinkle with flour, flip, and dust again. Working from the center out and adding more flour as needed, roll the dough until roughly 15-by-11 inches and very thin. Slide onto an aluminum baking sheet and brush away excess flour. Repeat with remaining dough.
For grocery store look-alikes, score each sheet of dough into twelve 2 1/4-by-4 3/4-inch rectangles and dock with a bamboo skewer or the narrow end of a chopstick (a strictly cosmetic procedure). Otherwise, leave the dough uncut.
Bake until crackers are tawny brown and firm, though your fingertip may leave a faint indentation, about 20 minutes. Immediately cut along the pre-scored lines with a knife, or cut into free-form shapes using a pizza wheel. Cool to room temperature directly on the baking sheets. Enjoy scrap pieces as a snack, or pulverize into crumbs. The grahams can be stored in an airtight container for up to 3 weeks at room temperature or frozen for up to 3 months.
Chocolate: My mom used to sandwich chocolate graham crackers with peanut butter for an after-school snack, a combo I re-create by reducing the whole wheat flour to 10 ounces (21/4 cups), sifted with 1 ounce (1/3 cup) natural or Dutch-process cocoa powder. To retain their deep cocoa color, roll the dough in sifted cocoa powder. Serve with generous smears of peanut butter and a tall glass of milk.
Cinnamon Sugar: We rarely had sugar-coated grahams in our pantry when I was a kid, but they were always at my best friend’s house, and seemed all the more special for their rarity. For the dough, increase the cinnamon to ½ teaspoon. Before docking, dust each sheet of dough with a half batch of Cinnamon Sugar (page 44), or any Sugar Sprinkle (page 46). Otherwise, dock and bake as directed. After the crackers cool, gently tap each against the baking sheet to knock off any excess sugar.
Coconut (vegan): Replace the butter with 5 1/2 ounces (3/4 cup) virgin coconut oil (solid but creamy—about 70 degrees F) and add 1 teaspoon pure coconut extract along with the vanilla.
Gingerbread: This variation has all the spicy complexity of a Christmas cookie, with the unique flavor and crunch of a classic graham. Make the dough with sorghum or unsulfured molasses (not blackstrap) and increase the cinnamon to 1 teaspoon. Along with the sugar, add 1 tablespoon orange zest, 2 teaspoons ground ginger, 1/8 teaspoon ground cloves, and a few cracks of black pepper.
Graham Cracker Crumb Crust: Combine 9 ounces (2 cups) finely ground graham cracker crumbs with 2 ounces (4 tablespoons) melted unsalted butter. Scatter into a 9-by-1 1/4-inch glass or ceramic pie plate and press into an even layer over the bottom and up the sides. Bake at 350 degrees F until firm, about 18 minutes. Cool to room temperature for immediate use in your favorite recipe, or wrap tightly in plastic and refrigerate for up to 1 week.
Gluten-Free: Replace the whole wheat flour with 6 ounces (11/4 cups) white rice flour, 4 ounces (1 cup plus 2 tablespoons) oat flour, and 1/2 ounce (1 tablespoon) kinako.

Caramel Apple Drip Cake with Candied Walnuts 
1 cup raw walnuts
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
3 medium apples (such as Gala, Honeycrisp, or Pink Lady), peeled, coarsely grated
1 cup buttermilk, room temperature
4 large eggs, room temperature
1 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup vegetable oil
1 cup granulated sugar, divided
2 cups raw walnut halves
2/3 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Pinch of kosher salt
Classic Cream Cheese Frosting
2 (8 inch) round cake pans

Position a rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Spread walnuts in a single layer on a rimmed baking sheet and toast until golden brown and aromatic, 5–8 minutes. Let cool 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, lightly coat cake pans with nonstick spray. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper; lightly coat parchment with nonstick spray. Whisk flour, baking powder, salt, cinnamon, baking soda, and nutmeg in a medium bowl.
Pulse walnuts and 1/2 cup dry ingredients in a food processor until walnuts are chopped into a fine flour. Transfer chopped walnuts to bowl with remaining dry ingredients. Mix apples and buttermilk in another medium bowl.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat eggs, granulated sugar, brown sugar, and vanilla in a large bowl until pale and thick, about 4 minutes. Reduce mixer speed to medium-low and gradually stream in oil. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with apple mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients; beat until smooth. Divide batter between prepared pans; smooth top.
Bake cakes, rotating pans halfway through, until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 40–45 minutes. Transfer pans to a wire rack and let cakes cool 10 minutes. Run a knife around sides of cakes and invert onto wire rack; remove parchment. Let cool completely.
Spread granulated sugar in a thin layer in the center of a large dry skillet. Cook over medium heat, mostly undisturbed (it's okay to swirl pan gently to get sugar to melt evenly), until sugar is melted, about 10 minutes. Quickly stir in walnuts and cook, stirring, until coated and melted sugar is chestnut brown, about 1 minute more. Scrape onto a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet and spread out to cool, separating walnut halves into individual pieces. Transfer half of nuts to a food processor and coarsely chop.
Bring granulated sugar, corn syrup, and 2 Tbsp. water to a boil in a medium saucepan over high heat. Continue to cook, without stirring, until medium amber in color, about 6 minutes.
Meanwhile, bring cream to a simmer in a small saucepan over medium heat or warm in microwave 45 seconds.
Remove saucepan with sugar from heat and carefully whisk in cream, stirring from the center outward, until well combined. Stir in butter. Add vanilla and salt and stir to combine. Transfer caramel to a heatproof container and let cool until thickened.
Spread 1 Tbsp. frosting in the center of a platter. Place 1 cake, domed side down, on platter. Spread 1 1/4 cups frosting evenly over top. Top with 1 cup chopped candied walnuts, reserving whole candied walnuts. Place remaining cake, domed side down, on top. Spread top and sides with 2 cups frosting. Chill 30 minutes to let frosting set.
Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Chill at least 30 minutes or up to overnight to let frosting set.
Place a spoonful of caramel sauce on top of cake near one edge. Using the bottom of the spoon, spread it out, then very gently press a little sauce over the edge. Move spoon around perimeter of cake slightly and repeat to create additional drips, rotating cake as you work and spreading excess sauce across top of cake. When entire cake is covered in drips, add remaining sauce to fully cover top.
Chill at least 30 minutes to let glaze set. Decorate top and sides of cake with remaining whole walnuts and serve.
Cake can be made 3 days ahead; wrap tightly in plastic and chill, or freeze up to 2 weeks. Caramel can be made up to 2 weeks ahead; cover and chill.

Olive Oil Cake 
1 1/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil; plus more for pan
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar; plus more
2 cups cake flour
1/3 cup almond flour or meal or fine-grind cornmeal
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
3 tablespoons amaretto, Grand Marnier, sweet vermouth, or other liqueur
1 tablespoon finely grated lemon zest
3 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 large eggs
A 9 inch-diameter springform pan

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Drizzle bottom and sides of pan with oil and use your fingers to coat. Line bottom with a round of parchment paper and smooth to eliminate air bubbles; coat parchment with more oil. Generously sprinkle pan with sugar and tilt to coat in an even layer; tap out excess. Whisk cake flour, almond flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a medium bowl to combine and eliminate any lumps. Stir together amaretto, lemon juice, and vanilla in a small bowl.
Using an electric mixer on high speed (use whisk attachment if working with a stand mixer), beat eggs, lemon zest, and 1 cup plus 2 Tbsp. sugar in a large bowl until mixture is very light, thick, pale, and falls off the whisk or beaters in a slowly dissolving ribbon, about 3 minutes if using a stand mixer and about 5 minutes if using a hand mixer. With mixer still on high speed, gradually stream in 1¼ cups oil and beat until incorporated and mixture is even thicker. Reduce mixer speed to low and add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with amaretto mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Fold batter several times with a large rubber spatula, making sure to scrape the bottom and sides of bowl. Scrape batter into prepared pan, smooth top, and sprinkle with more sugar.
Place cake in oven and immediately reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees F. Bake until top is golden brown, center is firm to the touch, and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 40–50 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool in pan 15 minutes.
Poke holes all over top of cake with a toothpick or skewer and drizzle with remaining 2 Tbsp. oil; let it absorb. Run a thin knife around edges of cake and remove ring from pan. Slide cake onto rack and let cool completely. For the best flavor and texture, wrap cake in plastic and let sit at room temperature at least a day before serving.
Cake can be baked 4 days ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.

Souffléed Cheesecake 
1 3/4 cups (7 ounces) graham cracker crumbs (store-bought, or make Whole Wheat Graham Crackers)
2 tablespoons (1 ounce) unsalted butter, melted
1/8 teaspoon Diamond Crystal kosher salt (half as much if iodized)
2 pounds cream cheese (four 8-ounce packages), softened—about 70 degrees F
1 cup (8 ounces) fresh goat cheese (not precrumbled), softened—about 70 degrees F
1 tablespoon freshly squeezed lemon juice
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon Diamond Crystal kosher salt (half as much if iodized)
1/4 teaspoon orange flower water
2 cups (14 ounces) sugar
6 large eggs, straight from the fridge
3/4 cup (6 ounces) heavy cream

Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and preheat to 450 degrees F. This recipe requires an 8-by-3 3/4-inch round pan, whether springform, non-latching with a removable bottom, or a traditional cake pan. With a two-piece pan, wrap the bottom in foil before attaching the sides. With a solid pan, line the bottom with parchment paper. In either case, lightly grease the pan.
Add the crumbs, butter, and salt to the prepared pan, stir with a fork until well combined, and then compress into an even layer.
Combine cream cheese, goat cheese, lemon juice, vanilla extract, salt, and orange flower water in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Mix on low speed until roughly combined, then increase to medium and beat until smooth, about 5 minutes; halfway through, pause to scrape the bowl and beater with a flexible spatula.
Reduce speed to medium-low, add sugar all at once, and mix until well combined. Set a fine-mesh sieve over the bowl, crack in the eggs, and whisk until they pass through; discard any clots that remain. Resume mixing on low until well combined, then scrape the bowl and beater once more.
In a 1-quart stainless steel saucepan, bring the cream to a full boil. Add to batter while mixing on low; this helps release any air pockets introduced in mixing. Use immediately, or refrigerate until needed—up to 1 week (bring to room temperature before baking).
Pour into the prepared pan and place on a baking sheet. Bake until the cheesecake puffs 1/2 inch over the rim of the pan and is golden on top, about 20 minutes. If necessary, rotate the baking sheet halfway through baking to ensure even browning.
Turn off the oven and open the door to vent for 10 minutes. Close the door, set oven to 250 degrees F, and continue baking until the outer edges of the cheesecake feel firm and the center registers 145 degrees F on a digital thermometer, about 35 minutes.
Cool cheesecake for 15 minutes, then run a thin knife around the sides to loosen (this helps the cake settle evenly as it cools). Cool for an hour more, then cover and refrigerate until cold, at least 12 hours.
Loosen the sides of the cheesecake with a thin knife. For a springform pan, simply pop the latch and remove the sides. For a non-latching pan, set on a large can of tomatoes or similarly sized object and use both hands to carefully drop the outer ring. For a solid cake pan, let stand in a few inches of scalding water until the pan feels warm. Drape the cake with plastic wrap and invert onto a large flat plate. Remove the pan or the bottom of a two-piece pan, peel off the parchment, and invert onto a serving plate.
Cut with a long thin knife, pausing to clean the blade under hot running water between slices. Tightly wrapped in plastic, leftovers will keep for up to 10 days in the fridge.
Cut with a long thin knife, pausing to clean the blade under hot running water between slices. Tightly wrapped in plastic, leftovers will keep for up to 10 days in the fridge.
Cookie Crumb Cheesecake: Replace the Graham Cracker crumbs with an equal amount of Oreo crumbs or Nutter Butter crumbs.
Fromage: For a truly cheesy cake, reduce the cream cheese to 24 ounces, omit the goat cheese, and divide the remaining 16 ounces between two or more of your favorite soft, rich cheeses. Some of my favorites include Fromage d’Affinois, Saint-Marcellin, Bûcheron, mascarpone, and even Saint Agur (a particularly creamy blue). Their flavor will shine through clearly, so choose something you know and love.
Green Tea Cheesecake: The herbal, mossy flavor of Japanese green tea provides a lovely counterpoint to the tangy richness of cream cheese. Simply whisk 2 tablespoons matcha (not bagged or loose green tea) into the sugar and proceed as directed.
Pumpkin Cheesecake: Reduce cream cheese to 1 1/2 pounds (3 cups), replace lemon juice with ½ ounce (1 tablespoon) dark rum, and increase kosher salt to 1/2 teaspoon. Along with sugar, add 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon, 1½ teaspoons ground ginger, and 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves. Omit heavy cream, and replace with 15 ounces (1 2/3 cups) pumpkin puree. If you like, serve with butterscotch sauce and a sprinkling of toasted hazelnut pieces.
Gluten-Free: Prepare crust with the Gluten-Free variation of my Crispy Whole Wheat Graham Crackers (TK LINK TO RECIPE); thanks to the roasted soybean flour in the dough, they bake up with a nutty richness much like classic whole wheat.

Ricotta Cheesecake with Almond Praline 
1 cup (150g) plain (all-purpose) flour
1/4 cup (55g) caster (superfine) sugar
100g (7 tablespoons) unsalted butter, chopped
330g (10 1/2 ounces) cream cheese, chopped and softened
500g (2 cups) fresh ricotta
1 1/3 cups (295g) caster (superfine) sugar
1/4 cup (60ml) lemon juice
2 tablespoons finely grated lemon rind
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 tablespoon water
5 eggs
3/4 cup (165g) raw caster (superfine) sugar
1/2 cup (40g) flaked (blanched, sliced) almonds, toasted

Preheat oven to 150 degrees C (300 degrees F).
Lightly grease a 22cm round springform cake tin and line the base with non-stick baking paper. Set aside.
To make the base, place the flour, sugar and butter in a food processor and process for 1 minute or until a rough dough forms.
Using the back of a spoon, press the mixture into the base of the prepared tin. Bake for 30–35 minutes or until golden and just cooked. Set aside to cool slightly.
While the base is baking, make the filling. Place the cream cheese, ricotta, sugar, lemon juice, lemon rind and vanilla in a food processor and process until smooth. Place the cornstarch and water in a small bowl and mix until smooth. Add the cornstarch mixture and the eggs to the filling and process to combine.
Lightly re-grease the sides of the cake tin and pour the filling over the base, tapping gently to remove any air bubbles.
Bake for 50 minutes–1 hour or until light golden and just set. Allow to cool in the closed oven for 50 minutes.
Refrigerate for 1 hour or until chilled.
Preheat oven to 200 degrees C (400 degrees F). Sprinkle the sugar over a large lightly greased baking tray lined with non-stick baking paper. Bake for 12–15 minutes or until melted. Sprinkle with the almonds and allow to set completely on the tray. Crush the praline into small pieces. Sprinkle the cheesecake with the almond praline to serve, pressing gently to secure.

Not-Quite-Bonnie's Rugelach 
1 1/4 cups (160 g) all-purpose flour
1/8 tsp salt
1/4 tsp baking powder
Finely grated zest of 1 small lemon (3/4 tsp)
Scraped seeds of 1/4 vanilla pod
1/2 cup plus 1 tbsp (125 g) unsalted butter, fridge-cold, cut roughly into 1-inch/3-cm cubes
4 1/2 oz (125 g) cream cheese, fridge-cold
1/3 cup (40 g) walnut halves
1/2 packed cup plus 1 tbsp (100 g) light brown sugar
1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
5 1/4 oz (150 g) store-bought quince paste (membrillo)
1 tsp lemon juice
1 large egg, lightly beaten
1/2 tbsp demerara sugar

To make the pastry, place the flour, salt, baking powder, lemon zest and vanilla seeds in a food processor and pulse for about 15 seconds to combine. Add the butter and pulse for a few seconds more, until the mixture has the texture of fresh breadcrumbs. Add the cream cheese and process just until the dough comes together in a ball around the blade; be careful not to overprocess or the pastry will be tough. Tip the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and knead for a few seconds, just to bring it together.
Divide the pastry in two, cover each half loosely in plastic wrap, then press to flatten into disks. Transfer to the fridge for 1 hour.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F/180 degrees C. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper and set aside.
To make the filling, spread the walnuts out on a rimmed baking sheet and roast for 5 minutes. Remove from the oven, set aside to cool, then chop finely and place in a small bowl with the brown sugar and cinnamon. Mix together and set aside.
In a separate bowl, combine the quince paste and lemon juice to form a smooth paste. (If your quince paste is very firm, warm it gently over low heat to soften [or heat for 10 seconds in a microwave], until the texture is thick like jam but spreadable, then set aside to cool before using).
Take one of the pieces of dough from the fridge and roll out on a lightly floured work surface to form a 9 1/2-inch/24-cm circle, about 1/8 inch/3 mm thick. Use a small spatula or the back of a spoon to spread half of the quince paste evenly over the surface and then sprinkle with half of the sugar-nut mixture. Using a sharp knife or a pizza wheel, if you have one, cut the dough as though you are slicing a cake into twelve equal triangles. The best way to get even-sized triangles is to cut it first into quarters, then each quarter into thirds. One at a time, roll each wedge quite tightly, starting from the wide outside edge and working toward the point of the triangle, so that the filling is enclosed. Place them on the lined baking sheets, seam side down, spaced about 1 inch/3 cm apart. Repeat the rolling process with the remaining disk of dough and filling, then chill the rugelachs in the fridge for 30 minutes before baking.
Increase the oven temperature to 400 degrees F/200 degrees C.
When ready to bake, lightly brush the tops of the rugelachs with the beaten egg and sprinkle with the demerara sugar. Bake for 20–25 minutes, rotating the sheets halfway through, until golden brown all over. Don’t worry if some of the filling oozes out; this will add a lovely toffee taste to the edges of the cookies. Remove from the oven and allow to rest on the sheets for 5 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely.
The pastry can be made a day ahead and kept in the fridge, or frozen for up to 3 months (remember to thaw it overnight in the fridge before using). The rolled rugelach can also be frozen (before glazing) for up to 3 months. When you are ready to bake them, brush with the glaze and bake from frozen, adding an extra minute or two to the cooking time.
These will keep for up to 4 days in an open container, separated by pieces of parchment paper, and the whole thing wrapped loosely in aluminum foil. Don’t keep in an airtight container; the sugar will weep if you do and turn the rugelach soft and sticky.

Soft Gingerbread Tiles with Rum Butter Glaze 
6 tbsp (85 g) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/3 packed cup plus 2 tbsp (90 g) dark brown sugar
1/4 cup (100 g) blackstrap molasses
1 large egg yolk
1 3/4 cups plus 2 tbsp (235 g) all-purpose flour, plus extra for pressing
1 tbsp Dutch-processed cocoa powder
1/2 tsp baking soda
1 tsp ground ginger
1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
1/8 tsp ground cloves
1/4 tsp salt
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
2/3 cup (80 g) confectioners' sugar
1/8 tsp ground cinnamon
1 tbsp (15 g) unsalted butter, melted and warm
1 tbsp dark rum (or lemon juice)
1 tsp warm water

Place the butter, sugar and molasses in the bowl of an electric mixer with the paddle attachment in place. Beat on medium speed until smooth and incorporated. Add the egg yolk and continue to beat until fully combined.
Sift the flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, ginger, cinnamon, cloves, salt and pepper into a bowl. Turn the speed of the mixer to low, and add the dry ingredients to the butter and molasses. Once the mix comes together, tip the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and knead gently. Roll out the dough so that it is about 1/4 inch/ 0.5 cm thick. If the dough is very soft, you will need to chill it.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F/190 degrees C. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper and set aside.
Dip the cookie stamps in a small bowl of flour, shake off any excess and then press them firmly into the dough, one at a time, to create a deep imprint. How far you need to press to get an imprint will depend on your stamp; the patterns on some are more deeply cut than others. Bear in mind that the cookies rise a little when cooked, so any soft imprints will disappear. Using a round cookie cutter that is slightly larger than the pattern, cut out the pieces of imprinted gingerbread. Transfer the cookies to the lined baking sheets, spaced about 3/4 inch/2 cm apart. Reroll the dough and continue to stamp and cut cookies until all the dough is used up.
Bake for 9–10 minutes, rotating the sheets halfway through, until firm to the touch. They will continue to firm up as they cool, so don’t be tempted to bake them for any longer.
To make the rum butter glaze while the gingerbreads are in the oven, as the glaze needs to be brushed onto the cookies while they are still warm, sift the confectioners’ sugar and cinnamon into a small bowl. Add the melted butter, rum (or lemon juice) and water and mix with a spoon until smooth. The glaze will thicken slightly if it sits around, so stir through a little more warm water if you need to—it should be the consistency of runny honey.
Remove the cookies from the oven, leave them to cool for 5 minutes, then brush or dab the glaze all over with a pastry brush. Transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.
Once the dough is made, it can be covered in plastic wrap and kept in the fridge for up to 2 days before baking.
These will keep for up to 5 days in an airtight container. The glaze will discolor and crack a little, but this will not affect how they taste.

No-Bake Pistachio–White Chocolate Cookies 
3/4 cup creamy no-stir sunflower seed or almond butter
1 cup white chocolate chips (about 6 ounces), divided
1 cup quick-cooking oats
3/4 cup dried cranberries, coarsely chopped
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon chopped, unsalted pistachios (about 2.3 ounces), divided
1/2 teaspoon vegetable oil

Heat sunflower seed butter and 3/4 cup chips in a medium heatproof bowl set over a medium pot of barely simmering water (bottom of bowl should not touch water), stirring occasionally, or in short bursts in the microwave, stirring in between bursts, until melted and smooth. Add oats, cranberries, salt, and 1/2 cup pistachios; stir gently to combine.
Spoon mixture by the tablespoonful onto a parchment-lined sheet tray. Gently press balls in the center to flatten. Chill until set, about 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, heat oil and remaining 1/4 chips in a medium heatproof bowl set over a medium pot of barely simmering water (bottom of bowl should not touch water), stirring occasionally, or in short bursts in the microwave, stirring in between bursts, until melted and smooth.
Drizzle cooled cookies with melted chocolate, top with remaining 1 Tbsp. pistachios, and chill until set, about 5 minutes.
Cookies can be made 5 days ahead. Store in an airtight container and chill.

Blood Orange and Poppy Polenta Shortbread Cookies 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
2/3 cup polenta (coarse cornmeal)
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for hands
1/2 cup granulated sugar
Finely grated zest of 1 lemon
Finely grated zest of 2 blood oranges
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 tablespoons poppy seeds, plus more for sprinkling
1/2 cup blood orange juice
1 cup powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter an 8x8 inch baking pan, preferably metal. Line with parchment paper, creating overhang on 2 sides. Lightly butter parchment. Whisk polenta, salt, and 1 1/2 cups flour in a medium bowl to combine. Place granulated sugar and blood orange and lemon zests in a large bowl and rub together with your fingers until mixture is very fragrant and sugar starts to look a little moist, about 1 minute. Add 1 cup butter and beat with an electric mixer on medium speed until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add vanilla and beat just to combine. Reduce speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients, mixing just until combined. Fold dough with a rubber spatula a few times to incorporate any dry bits in the bottom of the bowl. The dough will be wet and a bit sticky.
Using floured hands, gently press half of the dough into prepared pan in an even layer. Sprinkle 2 Tbsp. poppy seeds over dough; press gently to adhere. Scatter pieces of remaining dough over and press down into an even layer with floured hands. For a completely flat surface, use the bottom of a straight-sided measuring cup to smooth dough.
Bake shortbread until edges are golden brown and center is light golden, 25–30 minutes. Let cool in pan.
Meanwhile, simmer blood orange juice in a small saucepan over medium heat, swirling often, until reduced to 2 Tbsp., 10–12 minutes. Pour into a small bowl and let cool.
Carefully slide a small knife or offset spatula along sides of pan not lined with parchment paper, then use edges of paper to lift out shortbread onto a cutting board. Using a serrated knife, slice into quarters in one direction, then into eighths in the other direction (for larger bars, just cut in half first). Puzzle shortbread bars back into pan the same way they came out; set aside.
Add powdered sugar to bowl with reduced juice and whisk until smooth. The glaze should fall off the end of the whisk in a thick, glossy, smooth ribbon. If glaze is not pourable and gets stuck in the whisk, add in water a ½-teaspoonful at a time until you get the right consistency. Drizzle glaze over shortbread in pan and use an offset spatula to smooth all the way to the edges. Sprinkle with more poppy seeds and let shortbread sit until glaze is set, at least 1 hour.
Just before serving, retrace cuts with a sharp knife and remove bars from pan.
Shortbread can be baked 3 days ahead. Once glaze is set, cover tightly and store at room temperature.

Olive Oil Cake 
1 1/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil; plus more for pan
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar; plus more
2 cups cake flour
1/3 cup almond flour or meal or fine-grind cornmeal
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
3 tablespoons amaretto, Grand Marnier, sweet vermouth, or other liqueur
1 tablespoon finely grated lemon zest
3 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 large eggs
A 9 inch-diameter springform pan

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Drizzle bottom and sides of pan with oil and use your fingers to coat. Line bottom with a round of parchment paper and smooth to eliminate air bubbles; coat parchment with more oil. Generously sprinkle pan with sugar and tilt to coat in an even layer; tap out excess. Whisk cake flour, almond flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a medium bowl to combine and eliminate any lumps. Stir together amaretto, lemon juice, and vanilla in a small bowl.
Using an electric mixer on high speed (use whisk attachment if working with a stand mixer), beat eggs, lemon zest, and 1 cup plus 2 Tbsp. sugar in a large bowl until mixture is very light, thick, pale, and falls off the whisk or beaters in a slowly dissolving ribbon, about 3 minutes if using a stand mixer and about 5 minutes if using a hand mixer. With mixer still on high speed, gradually stream in 1¼ cups oil and beat until incorporated and mixture is even thicker. Reduce mixer speed to low and add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with amaretto mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Fold batter several times with a large rubber spatula, making sure to scrape the bottom and sides of bowl. Scrape batter into prepared pan, smooth top, and sprinkle with more sugar.
Place cake in oven and immediately reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees F. Bake until top is golden brown, center is firm to the touch, and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 40–50 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool in pan 15 minutes.
Poke holes all over top of cake with a toothpick or skewer and drizzle with remaining 2 Tbsp. oil; let it absorb. Run a thin knife around edges of cake and remove ring from pan. Slide cake onto rack and let cool completely. For the best flavor and texture, wrap cake in plastic and let sit at room temperature at least a day before serving.
Cake can be baked 4 days ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.

Double Chocolate Cake with Peppermint-Chocolate Frosting 
Nonstick vegetable cooking spray
1/2 cup unsweetened applesauce
1 1/4 teaspoons baking powder, divided
2 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped
2/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/3 cups mayonnaise
1 cup granulated sugar
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 pound, 3 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup refined coconut oil
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon peppermint extract
1 pound, 5 ounces bittersweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
2 candy canes, lightly crushed
2 (9 inch) round cake pans; a 1 inch pastry brush

Position a rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat cake pans with nonstick spray. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper; lightly coat parchment with nonstick spray.
Whisk applesauce and 1 tsp. baking powder in a small bowl. Mix chocolate and cocoa powder in a medium bowl. Pour 1 3/4 cups boiling water over and whisk until chocolate is melted. Sift flour, baking soda, salt, and remaining 1/4 tsp. baking powder into another medium bowl.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat mayonnaise, granulated sugar, and brown sugar in a large bowl (or use a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment) until well blended, about 3 minutes. Add half of applesauce mixture and beat to blend. Add remaining applesauce mixture, then beat in vanilla. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with chocolate mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients, beating to blend after each addition and occasionally scraping down sides of bowl. Divide batter among prepared pans; smooth top.
Bake cakes, rotating pans halfway through, until center is set and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 40–45 minutes. Transfer pans to a wire rack and let cakes cool 10 minutes. Run a knife around sides of cakes and invert onto wire rack; remove parchment. Let cool.
Heat chocolate, coconut oil, vanilla, and salt in a medium heatproof bowl set over a medium pot of barely simmering water (bottom of bowl should not touch water), stirring occasionally, or in short bursts in the microwave, stirring in between bursts, until chocolate is melted and smooth. Whisk in peppermint extract and 1/4 cup water. Chill, stirring every 5 minutes, until frosting thickens, about 25 minutes. If frosting gets too thick, gently reheat over pot of simmering water.
Heat chocolate in a medium heatproof bowl set over a medium pot of barely simmering water (bottom of bowl should not touch water), stirring occasionally, or in short bursts in the microwave, stirring in between bursts, until chocolate is melted and smooth.
Dip clean, dry pastry brush into melted chocolate. Brush a stripe of chocolate about 3 inch long and 1/8 inch thick on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Chill. Repeat process on second parchment-lined baking sheet. Swap trays and go over original brush strokes, repeating and chilling in between coatings and gently reheating chocolate if needed, until stems are 1/4 inch thick.
When stems are thick enough, sprinkle one end with crushed candy canes. Chill until set, about 10 minutes.
Spread 1 Tbsp. frosting in the center of a platter. Place 1 cake layer, domed side down, on platter. Spread 1 1/2 cups frosting evenly over top. Place remaining cake layer, domed side down, over frosting.
Spread top and sides of cake with remaining 2 cups frosting, swirling top decoratively. Press chocolate stems into frosting on sides of cake. Serve at room temperature.
Cake can be made 3 days ahead; wrap tightly in plastic and chill, or freeze up to 2 weeks. Frosting can be made 5 days ahead; chill, or freeze up to 1 month. Gently reheat over pot of simmering water or in short bursts in the microwave, stirring in between bursts. Chocolate stems can be made 3 days ahead; keep chilled.

Hazelnut Lace Sandwich Cookies 
1/2 cup blanched hazelnuts
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
6 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/4 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons heavy cream
2 tablespoons pure maple syrup
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
1/3 cup blueberry jam, strained
Finely grated zest of 1 lime

Pulse hazelnuts, flour, and salt in a food processor until nuts are finely ground; set aside.
Cook butter in a medium saucepan over medium heat until butter foams, then browns, about 5 minutes. Let cool about 5 minutes, then add granulated sugar, cream, maple syrup, vanilla, and 1 Tbsp. water and stir to incorporate. Return saucepan to medium heat and bring to a boil; cook, without stirring, 30 seconds. Remove pan from heat and stir in hazelnut mixture. Scrape batter into a medium heatproof bowl and let cool, stirring occasionally to reincorporate the butter.
Meanwhile, place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F.
Scoop out rounded teaspoonfuls of batter and roll between the palms of your hands into smooth balls. Place on 2 parchment-lined baking sheets at least 3 inch apart. Because these cookies spread so much during baking, give each ball plenty of space. You should be able to fit 8 per sheet and will need to bake in 2 batches for a total of 32 cookies.
Bake cookies, rotating baking sheets top to bottom and front to back halfway through, until they spread into thin lacy disks and are deep golden brown around the edges, 10–14 minutes. Let cool on baking sheets. Repeat with remaining batter, using fresh parchment paper on baking sheets.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat butter in a medium bowl until light, about 1 minute. Add powdered sugar and beat until pale, about 30 seconds. Add jam about 1 tablespoonful at a time, beating until smooth after each addition, then beat in lime zest.
Carefully remove cooled cookies from parchment. Using a small offset spatula, spread 1–2 tsp. filling across flat sides of half of cookies. Top with remaining cookies to create sandwiches.
Cookies can be baked 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature, separated by layers of parchment paper to prevent sticking.

Souffléed Cheesecake 
1 3/4 cups (7 ounces) graham cracker crumbs (store-bought, or make Whole Wheat Graham Crackers)
2 tablespoons (1 ounce) unsalted butter, melted
1/8 teaspoon Diamond Crystal kosher salt (half as much if iodized)
2 pounds cream cheese (four 8-ounce packages), softened—about 70 degrees F
1 cup (8 ounces) fresh goat cheese (not precrumbled), softened—about 70 degrees F
1 tablespoon freshly squeezed lemon juice
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon Diamond Crystal kosher salt (half as much if iodized)
1/4 teaspoon orange flower water
2 cups (14 ounces) sugar
6 large eggs, straight from the fridge
3/4 cup (6 ounces) heavy cream

Adjust oven rack to lower-middle position and preheat to 450 degrees F. This recipe requires an 8-by-3 3/4-inch round pan, whether springform, non-latching with a removable bottom, or a traditional cake pan. With a two-piece pan, wrap the bottom in foil before attaching the sides. With a solid pan, line the bottom with parchment paper. In either case, lightly grease the pan.
Add the crumbs, butter, and salt to the prepared pan, stir with a fork until well combined, and then compress into an even layer.
Combine cream cheese, goat cheese, lemon juice, vanilla extract, salt, and orange flower water in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Mix on low speed until roughly combined, then increase to medium and beat until smooth, about 5 minutes; halfway through, pause to scrape the bowl and beater with a flexible spatula.
Reduce speed to medium-low, add sugar all at once, and mix until well combined. Set a fine-mesh sieve over the bowl, crack in the eggs, and whisk until they pass through; discard any clots that remain. Resume mixing on low until well combined, then scrape the bowl and beater once more.
In a 1-quart stainless steel saucepan, bring the cream to a full boil. Add to batter while mixing on low; this helps release any air pockets introduced in mixing. Use immediately, or refrigerate until needed—up to 1 week (bring to room temperature before baking).
Pour into the prepared pan and place on a baking sheet. Bake until the cheesecake puffs 1/2 inch over the rim of the pan and is golden on top, about 20 minutes. If necessary, rotate the baking sheet halfway through baking to ensure even browning.
Turn off the oven and open the door to vent for 10 minutes. Close the door, set oven to 250 degrees F, and continue baking until the outer edges of the cheesecake feel firm and the center registers 145 degrees F on a digital thermometer, about 35 minutes.
Cool cheesecake for 15 minutes, then run a thin knife around the sides to loosen (this helps the cake settle evenly as it cools). Cool for an hour more, then cover and refrigerate until cold, at least 12 hours.
Loosen the sides of the cheesecake with a thin knife. For a springform pan, simply pop the latch and remove the sides. For a non-latching pan, set on a large can of tomatoes or similarly sized object and use both hands to carefully drop the outer ring. For a solid cake pan, let stand in a few inches of scalding water until the pan feels warm. Drape the cake with plastic wrap and invert onto a large flat plate. Remove the pan or the bottom of a two-piece pan, peel off the parchment, and invert onto a serving plate.
Cut with a long thin knife, pausing to clean the blade under hot running water between slices. Tightly wrapped in plastic, leftovers will keep for up to 10 days in the fridge.
Cut with a long thin knife, pausing to clean the blade under hot running water between slices. Tightly wrapped in plastic, leftovers will keep for up to 10 days in the fridge.
Cookie Crumb Cheesecake: Replace the Graham Cracker crumbs with an equal amount of Oreo crumbs or Nutter Butter crumbs.
Fromage: For a truly cheesy cake, reduce the cream cheese to 24 ounces, omit the goat cheese, and divide the remaining 16 ounces between two or more of your favorite soft, rich cheeses. Some of my favorites include Fromage d’Affinois, Saint-Marcellin, Bûcheron, mascarpone, and even Saint Agur (a particularly creamy blue). Their flavor will shine through clearly, so choose something you know and love.
Green Tea Cheesecake: The herbal, mossy flavor of Japanese green tea provides a lovely counterpoint to the tangy richness of cream cheese. Simply whisk 2 tablespoons matcha (not bagged or loose green tea) into the sugar and proceed as directed.
Pumpkin Cheesecake: Reduce cream cheese to 1 1/2 pounds (3 cups), replace lemon juice with ½ ounce (1 tablespoon) dark rum, and increase kosher salt to 1/2 teaspoon. Along with sugar, add 2 teaspoons ground cinnamon, 1½ teaspoons ground ginger, and 1/2 teaspoon ground cloves. Omit heavy cream, and replace with 15 ounces (1 2/3 cups) pumpkin puree. If you like, serve with butterscotch sauce and a sprinkling of toasted hazelnut pieces.
Gluten-Free: Prepare crust with the Gluten-Free variation of my Crispy Whole Wheat Graham Crackers (TK LINK TO RECIPE); thanks to the roasted soybean flour in the dough, they bake up with a nutty richness much like classic whole wheat.

Caramel Apple Drip Cake with Candied Walnuts 
1 cup raw walnuts
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
3 medium apples (such as Gala, Honeycrisp, or Pink Lady), peeled, coarsely grated
1 cup buttermilk, room temperature
4 large eggs, room temperature
1 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup vegetable oil
1 cup granulated sugar, divided
2 cups raw walnut halves
2/3 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Pinch of kosher salt
Classic Cream Cheese Frosting
2 (8 inch) round cake pans

Position a rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Spread walnuts in a single layer on a rimmed baking sheet and toast until golden brown and aromatic, 5–8 minutes. Let cool 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, lightly coat cake pans with nonstick spray. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper; lightly coat parchment with nonstick spray. Whisk flour, baking powder, salt, cinnamon, baking soda, and nutmeg in a medium bowl.
Pulse walnuts and 1/2 cup dry ingredients in a food processor until walnuts are chopped into a fine flour. Transfer chopped walnuts to bowl with remaining dry ingredients. Mix apples and buttermilk in another medium bowl.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat eggs, granulated sugar, brown sugar, and vanilla in a large bowl until pale and thick, about 4 minutes. Reduce mixer speed to medium-low and gradually stream in oil. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with apple mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients; beat until smooth. Divide batter between prepared pans; smooth top.
Bake cakes, rotating pans halfway through, until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 40–45 minutes. Transfer pans to a wire rack and let cakes cool 10 minutes. Run a knife around sides of cakes and invert onto wire rack; remove parchment. Let cool completely.
Spread granulated sugar in a thin layer in the center of a large dry skillet. Cook over medium heat, mostly undisturbed (it's okay to swirl pan gently to get sugar to melt evenly), until sugar is melted, about 10 minutes. Quickly stir in walnuts and cook, stirring, until coated and melted sugar is chestnut brown, about 1 minute more. Scrape onto a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet and spread out to cool, separating walnut halves into individual pieces. Transfer half of nuts to a food processor and coarsely chop.
Bring granulated sugar, corn syrup, and 2 Tbsp. water to a boil in a medium saucepan over high heat. Continue to cook, without stirring, until medium amber in color, about 6 minutes.
Meanwhile, bring cream to a simmer in a small saucepan over medium heat or warm in microwave 45 seconds.
Remove saucepan with sugar from heat and carefully whisk in cream, stirring from the center outward, until well combined. Stir in butter. Add vanilla and salt and stir to combine. Transfer caramel to a heatproof container and let cool until thickened.
Spread 1 Tbsp. frosting in the center of a platter. Place 1 cake, domed side down, on platter. Spread 1 1/4 cups frosting evenly over top. Top with 1 cup chopped candied walnuts, reserving whole candied walnuts. Place remaining cake, domed side down, on top. Spread top and sides with 2 cups frosting. Chill 30 minutes to let frosting set.
Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Chill at least 30 minutes or up to overnight to let frosting set.
Place a spoonful of caramel sauce on top of cake near one edge. Using the bottom of the spoon, spread it out, then very gently press a little sauce over the edge. Move spoon around perimeter of cake slightly and repeat to create additional drips, rotating cake as you work and spreading excess sauce across top of cake. When entire cake is covered in drips, add remaining sauce to fully cover top.
Chill at least 30 minutes to let glaze set. Decorate top and sides of cake with remaining whole walnuts and serve.
Cake can be made 3 days ahead; wrap tightly in plastic and chill, or freeze up to 2 weeks. Caramel can be made up to 2 weeks ahead; cover and chill.

Blood Orange and Poppy Polenta Shortbread Cookies 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
2/3 cup polenta (coarse cornmeal)
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for hands
1/2 cup granulated sugar
Finely grated zest of 1 lemon
Finely grated zest of 2 blood oranges
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 tablespoons poppy seeds, plus more for sprinkling
1/2 cup blood orange juice
1 cup powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter an 8x8 inch baking pan, preferably metal. Line with parchment paper, creating overhang on 2 sides. Lightly butter parchment. Whisk polenta, salt, and 1 1/2 cups flour in a medium bowl to combine. Place granulated sugar and blood orange and lemon zests in a large bowl and rub together with your fingers until mixture is very fragrant and sugar starts to look a little moist, about 1 minute. Add 1 cup butter and beat with an electric mixer on medium speed until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add vanilla and beat just to combine. Reduce speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients, mixing just until combined. Fold dough with a rubber spatula a few times to incorporate any dry bits in the bottom of the bowl. The dough will be wet and a bit sticky.
Using floured hands, gently press half of the dough into prepared pan in an even layer. Sprinkle 2 Tbsp. poppy seeds over dough; press gently to adhere. Scatter pieces of remaining dough over and press down into an even layer with floured hands. For a completely flat surface, use the bottom of a straight-sided measuring cup to smooth dough.
Bake shortbread until edges are golden brown and center is light golden, 25–30 minutes. Let cool in pan.
Meanwhile, simmer blood orange juice in a small saucepan over medium heat, swirling often, until reduced to 2 Tbsp., 10–12 minutes. Pour into a small bowl and let cool.
Carefully slide a small knife or offset spatula along sides of pan not lined with parchment paper, then use edges of paper to lift out shortbread onto a cutting board. Using a serrated knife, slice into quarters in one direction, then into eighths in the other direction (for larger bars, just cut in half first). Puzzle shortbread bars back into pan the same way they came out; set aside.
Add powdered sugar to bowl with reduced juice and whisk until smooth. The glaze should fall off the end of the whisk in a thick, glossy, smooth ribbon. If glaze is not pourable and gets stuck in the whisk, add in water a ½-teaspoonful at a time until you get the right consistency. Drizzle glaze over shortbread in pan and use an offset spatula to smooth all the way to the edges. Sprinkle with more poppy seeds and let shortbread sit until glaze is set, at least 1 hour.
Just before serving, retrace cuts with a sharp knife and remove bars from pan.
Shortbread can be baked 3 days ahead. Once glaze is set, cover tightly and store at room temperature.

Not-Quite-Bonnie's Rugelach 
1 1/4 cups (160 g) all-purpose flour
1/8 tsp salt
1/4 tsp baking powder
Finely grated zest of 1 small lemon (3/4 tsp)
Scraped seeds of 1/4 vanilla pod
1/2 cup plus 1 tbsp (125 g) unsalted butter, fridge-cold, cut roughly into 1-inch/3-cm cubes
4 1/2 oz (125 g) cream cheese, fridge-cold
1/3 cup (40 g) walnut halves
1/2 packed cup plus 1 tbsp (100 g) light brown sugar
1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
5 1/4 oz (150 g) store-bought quince paste (membrillo)
1 tsp lemon juice
1 large egg, lightly beaten
1/2 tbsp demerara sugar

To make the pastry, place the flour, salt, baking powder, lemon zest and vanilla seeds in a food processor and pulse for about 15 seconds to combine. Add the butter and pulse for a few seconds more, until the mixture has the texture of fresh breadcrumbs. Add the cream cheese and process just until the dough comes together in a ball around the blade; be careful not to overprocess or the pastry will be tough. Tip the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and knead for a few seconds, just to bring it together.
Divide the pastry in two, cover each half loosely in plastic wrap, then press to flatten into disks. Transfer to the fridge for 1 hour.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F/180 degrees C. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper and set aside.
To make the filling, spread the walnuts out on a rimmed baking sheet and roast for 5 minutes. Remove from the oven, set aside to cool, then chop finely and place in a small bowl with the brown sugar and cinnamon. Mix together and set aside.
In a separate bowl, combine the quince paste and lemon juice to form a smooth paste. (If your quince paste is very firm, warm it gently over low heat to soften [or heat for 10 seconds in a microwave], until the texture is thick like jam but spreadable, then set aside to cool before using).
Take one of the pieces of dough from the fridge and roll out on a lightly floured work surface to form a 9 1/2-inch/24-cm circle, about 1/8 inch/3 mm thick. Use a small spatula or the back of a spoon to spread half of the quince paste evenly over the surface and then sprinkle with half of the sugar-nut mixture. Using a sharp knife or a pizza wheel, if you have one, cut the dough as though you are slicing a cake into twelve equal triangles. The best way to get even-sized triangles is to cut it first into quarters, then each quarter into thirds. One at a time, roll each wedge quite tightly, starting from the wide outside edge and working toward the point of the triangle, so that the filling is enclosed. Place them on the lined baking sheets, seam side down, spaced about 1 inch/3 cm apart. Repeat the rolling process with the remaining disk of dough and filling, then chill the rugelachs in the fridge for 30 minutes before baking.
Increase the oven temperature to 400 degrees F/200 degrees C.
When ready to bake, lightly brush the tops of the rugelachs with the beaten egg and sprinkle with the demerara sugar. Bake for 20–25 minutes, rotating the sheets halfway through, until golden brown all over. Don’t worry if some of the filling oozes out; this will add a lovely toffee taste to the edges of the cookies. Remove from the oven and allow to rest on the sheets for 5 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely.
The pastry can be made a day ahead and kept in the fridge, or frozen for up to 3 months (remember to thaw it overnight in the fridge before using). The rolled rugelach can also be frozen (before glazing) for up to 3 months. When you are ready to bake them, brush with the glaze and bake from frozen, adding an extra minute or two to the cooking time.
These will keep for up to 4 days in an open container, separated by pieces of parchment paper, and the whole thing wrapped loosely in aluminum foil. Don’t keep in an airtight container; the sugar will weep if you do and turn the rugelach soft and sticky.

Ricotta Cheesecake with Almond Praline 
1 cup (150g) plain (all-purpose) flour
1/4 cup (55g) caster (superfine) sugar
100g (7 tablespoons) unsalted butter, chopped
330g (10 1/2 ounces) cream cheese, chopped and softened
500g (2 cups) fresh ricotta
1 1/3 cups (295g) caster (superfine) sugar
1/4 cup (60ml) lemon juice
2 tablespoons finely grated lemon rind
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 tablespoon water
5 eggs
3/4 cup (165g) raw caster (superfine) sugar
1/2 cup (40g) flaked (blanched, sliced) almonds, toasted

Preheat oven to 150 degrees C (300 degrees F).
Lightly grease a 22cm round springform cake tin and line the base with non-stick baking paper. Set aside.
To make the base, place the flour, sugar and butter in a food processor and process for 1 minute or until a rough dough forms.
Using the back of a spoon, press the mixture into the base of the prepared tin. Bake for 30–35 minutes or until golden and just cooked. Set aside to cool slightly.
While the base is baking, make the filling. Place the cream cheese, ricotta, sugar, lemon juice, lemon rind and vanilla in a food processor and process until smooth. Place the cornstarch and water in a small bowl and mix until smooth. Add the cornstarch mixture and the eggs to the filling and process to combine.
Lightly re-grease the sides of the cake tin and pour the filling over the base, tapping gently to remove any air bubbles.
Bake for 50 minutes–1 hour or until light golden and just set. Allow to cool in the closed oven for 50 minutes.
Refrigerate for 1 hour or until chilled.
Preheat oven to 200 degrees C (400 degrees F). Sprinkle the sugar over a large lightly greased baking tray lined with non-stick baking paper. Bake for 12–15 minutes or until melted. Sprinkle with the almonds and allow to set completely on the tray. Crush the praline into small pieces. Sprinkle the cheesecake with the almond praline to serve, pressing gently to secure.

No-Bake Pistachio–White Chocolate Cookies 
3/4 cup creamy no-stir sunflower seed or almond butter
1 cup white chocolate chips (about 6 ounces), divided
1 cup quick-cooking oats
3/4 cup dried cranberries, coarsely chopped
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon chopped, unsalted pistachios (about 2.3 ounces), divided
1/2 teaspoon vegetable oil

Heat sunflower seed butter and 3/4 cup chips in a medium heatproof bowl set over a medium pot of barely simmering water (bottom of bowl should not touch water), stirring occasionally, or in short bursts in the microwave, stirring in between bursts, until melted and smooth. Add oats, cranberries, salt, and 1/2 cup pistachios; stir gently to combine.
Spoon mixture by the tablespoonful onto a parchment-lined sheet tray. Gently press balls in the center to flatten. Chill until set, about 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, heat oil and remaining 1/4 chips in a medium heatproof bowl set over a medium pot of barely simmering water (bottom of bowl should not touch water), stirring occasionally, or in short bursts in the microwave, stirring in between bursts, until melted and smooth.
Drizzle cooled cookies with melted chocolate, top with remaining 1 Tbsp. pistachios, and chill until set, about 5 minutes.
Cookies can be made 5 days ahead. Store in an airtight container and chill.

Spiced and Glazed Molasses Cookies 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup whole wheat flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon kosher salt
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1 1/2 teaspoons finely ground black pepper, plus more for sprinkling
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 large egg, room temperature
1/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon mild-flavored (light) molasses
3/4 cup powdered sugar
1 tablespoon (or more) milk
Raw sugar (for sprinkling)

Whisk all-purpose flour, whole wheat flour, baking soda, salt, ginger, cinnamon, cloves, and 1 1/2 tsp. pepper in a medium bowl to combine.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed,beat brown sugar and butter in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add egg and beat to incorporate. Add 1/3 cup molasses and mix just to combine. Reduce mixer speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients; beat just until incorporated. Pat dough together and wrap in plastic. Chill until firm, about 1 hour.
Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Scoop out level tablespoonfuls of dough and roll between the palms of your hands into smooth balls. Place on 2 parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing about 2 inch apart (you should be able to fit about 12 on each sheet).
Bake cookies, rotating baking sheets top to bottom and back to front halfway through, until just firm around the edges, 9–12 minutes (if you like chewier cookies, bake less, and if a crispier cookie is your thing, bake a little longer). Let cookies cool about 5 minutes on baking sheets, then transfer to wire racks and let cool completely.
Repeat with remaining dough, using fresh parchment paper on baking sheets.
Whisk powdered sugar, milk, and remaining 1 Tbsp. molasses in a medium bowl until smooth. The glaze should be very thick and glossy but still pourable. If needed, add more milk or water 1/2-teaspoonful at a time until you get to the right consistency. Drizzle glaze over cookies and sprinkle with raw sugar and more pepper.
Cookies can be baked and glazed 2 days ahead. Once glaze is set, store airtight at room temperature, or freeze unglazed cookies up to 1 month in resealable plastic bags.

Frosted Malt-Chocolate Cookies 
10 ounces semisweet chocolate wafers (disks, pistoles, fèves; about 2 cups), divided
3/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 tablespoons malted milk powder
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for parchment paper
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 teaspoons vanilla extract
2/3 cup plus 1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
Flaky sea salt
A 1 1/2-inch-diameter cookie cutter

Pulse 6 oz. chocolate wafers in a food processor until finely chopped. Transfer to a large bowl.
Pulse brown sugar, cocoa powder, malted milk powder, baking powder, kosher salt, and 2 cups flour in food processor several times to combine. Add butter and pulse until pieces are broken up into bits no larger than a pea. Add to bowl with chocolate and toss to combine.
Stir vanilla and 2/3 cup cream in a measuring glass to combine, then slowly drizzle over chocolate mixture, mixing with a fork all the while. Mixture will look dry once you’ve added all the cream. Knead dough a few times in the bowl (it will not come together and will look crumbly), then transfer to a large piece of plastic wrap. Bring the edges of plastic up and over dough and press down to incorporate floury parts, then wrap tightly. Use the heel of your hand to press down firmly on the dough, forcing it to tightly fill out the plastic. This will help the dough adhere into a single mass and help the flour hydrate. Chill dough until firm, at least 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Roll out dough between 2 sheets of floured parchment paper to 3/4 inch thick (you might not have to roll it very much). Punch out rounds with cookie cutter as close together as possible. Transfer biscuits to a parchment-lined baking sheet and freeze 10 minutes.
Bake biscuits, rotating baking sheet halfway through, until firm to the touch around the edges, 13–18 minutes. Let cool on baking sheet.
Meanwhile, heat corn syrup, remaining 4 oz. chocolate, and remaining 1/2 cup cream in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water (bowl should not be touching the water), stirring often, until chocolate is melted and mixture is completely smooth. Set bowl with frosting into a large bowl of ice water and let cool, stirring occasionally, until thickened but still pourable and shiny. Spoon a scant tablespoonful of frosting onto each biscuit; sprinkle with sea salt.
Dough can be made 1 day ahead; keep chilled. Biscuits (without frosting) can be baked 2 days ahead; store airtight at room temperature.

Simple Vanilla Jam Drops 
1 x quantity unrolled Vanilla Snap Cookie dough
1/2 cup (160g) raspberry jam

Place the butter, sugar and vanilla in a food processor and process until smooth.
Add the flour, egg and extra egg yolk and process until a smooth dough forms.
Preheat oven to 180 degrees C (350 degrees F). Roll tablespoons of the dough into balls and place on lightly greased baking trays lined with non-stick baking paper. Flatten slightly and, using your fingertip, make an indent in each round. Fill each indent with 1/4 teaspoon of the jam. Bake for 12–14 minutes or until golden. Allow to cool on trays for 10 minutes before transferring onto wire racks to cool completely.

Gingerbread Brownies 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 1/4 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
4 large eggs
3 tablespoons molasses (not robust/blackstrap)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves

Place a rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Coat a 9x9 inch baking pan with nonstick spray. Line pan with 2 overlapping layers of parchment, leaving a 2 inch overhang on all sides. Coat parchment with nonstick spray.
Whisk sugar, cocoa powder, and salt in a large bowl. Melt butter in a medium heatproof bowl in the microwave or in a medium pot over medium heat. Immediately add hot butter to sugar mixture and stir with a wooden spoon or rubber spatula until smooth. Add eggs one at a time, stirring vigorously with spoon or spatula after each addition, until batter is thick, shiny, and smooth. Stir in molasses and vanilla. Using a sifter or fine-mesh sieve, sift in flour, cinnamon, ginger, baking powder, and cloves. Stir until well incorporated, then beat vigorously for 40 strokes.
Transfer batter to prepared pan; smooth top. Bake brownie until top is firm to the touch, edges are set, center is moist but not uncooked, and a tester or paring knife inserted into the center comes out with moist crumbs (not runny batter) attached, 25–25 minutes.
Transfer to a wire rack and let brownie cool completely in pan. Using parchment overhang, lift brownie out of pan and transfer to a cutting board. Cut into 16 squares.

Christmas Bombe with Spiced Cake and Chocolate-Brandy Glaze 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/2 cup light corn syrup
1/2 cup sugar
2 large egg whites
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
2 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup heavy cream
3/4 cup sweetened condensed milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/4 cups dried, bright orange apricots (about 8 ounces), halved
1 1/4 cups Luxardo or maraschino cherries (about 7 ounces), halved, rinsed, patted dry
1 1/4 cups unsalted pistachios (about 6 ounces), coarsely chopped
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
6 ounces bittersweet chocolate (70–72% cacao), coarsely chopped
5 large eggs, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon finely grated orange zest
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
4 1/2 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons heavy cream
Pinch of kosher salt
1 tablespoons brandy (optional)
A 9 inch round cake pan; a cake board

Spray a large bowl (at least 12-cup capacity; the stainless steel bowl of a stand mixer is perfect) with nonstick spray, then line with plastic wrap, leaving a generous overhang.
Heat corn syrup, sugar, and 1/4 cup water in a small saucepan over low until sugar is melted. Increase heat to medium and cook until an instant-read thermometer registers 240 degrees F, about 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, using an electric mixer on medium-high speed (or a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment), beat egg whites and cream of tartar in a large bowl until soft peaks form. Reduce mixer speed to low and carefully add sugar syrup to egg whites in a slow and steady stream. Increase speed to high and beat until mixture is light, glossy, and fluffy, 6–8 minutes.
Using electric mixer on high speed, beat cream cheese in another large bowl until creamy, about 3 minutes. Add heavy cream, milk, vanilla, and salt and beat until smooth.
Whisk one–third of meringue into cream cheese mixture to lighten. Gently fold remaining meringue into cream cheese mixture. Fold in apricots, cherries, and pistachios.
Pour mixture into prepared bowl, smooth top, then bring plastic up and over bombe, pressing against bottom of bowl to compact. Freeze until hard, at least 12 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat cake pan with nonstick spray. Line bottom of pan with parchment paper; lightly coat parchment with nonstick spray.
Heat butter and chocolate in a large heatproof bowl set over a medium saucepan of barely simmering water (do not let bowl touch water), stirring, until chocolate is melted and smooth.
Using electric mixer on medium speed, beat eggs and sugar in another large bowl until pale and tripled in volume, 10–12 minutes.
Whisk flour, baking powder, cinnamon, orange zest, cloves, nutmeg, and salt in a medium bowl. Whisk dry ingredients into chocolate mixture until well combined. Using a rubber spatula, fold about one-third of egg mixture into chocolate mixture to lighten, then fold chocolate mixture into remaining egg mixture until combined.
Pour batter into prepared pan; smooth surface. Bake cake until center is set and sides are beginning to brown, 45–50 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack and let cake cool completely in pan (cake will sink a little in the center as it cools).
Trim cake board to fit inside bowl with mousse (slightly smaller than diameter of bowl). Remove cake from pan and trim to flatten top, then trim to size of cake board. Place cake on board, then place board on a wire rack set on a sheet tray.
Rub bowl with a very hot, wet towel to defrost slightly; remove plastic wrap from top of bowl. Invert bowl upside down on top of cake. Using plastic, gently pull so mousse comes free; adjust to center mousse on cake, if needed. Peel off plastic.
Place chocolate in a medium bowl. Heat cream in a small pot over medium until hot but not boiling. Pour over chocolate, let sit 5 minutes, then stir until smooth. Add salt and brandy (if using) and stir to combine.
Spoon glaze over bombe, letting it drip over sides to coat thoroughly.
Transfer bombe to a platter. Cut into wedges with a hot dry knife (run knife under hot water and wipe dry between slices).
Mousse bombe can be made 1 week ahead. Keep frozen. Cake can be baked 1 day ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.

Crispy Whole Wheat Graham Crackers 
3/4 cup (5 1/2 ounces) sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon Diamond Crystal kosher salt (half as much if iodized)
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup (3 ounces) golden syrup, such as Lyle’s, sorghum, unsulfured molasses (not blackstrap), or honey
1 1/2 sticks (6 ounces) unsalted butter, solid but creamy—about 70 degrees F
2 1/2 cups (12 ounces) whole wheat flour (not stone-ground or white whole wheat), plus more for dusting

Combine sugar, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, vanilla, golden syrup, and butter in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Mix on low speed to moisten, then increase to medium and beat until somewhat light, about 3 minutes. Reduce speed to low, add whole wheat flour, and mix to form a soft dough.
Scrape dough onto a work surface and knead gently to form a ball. Divide in half. Use immediately or wrap in plastic and refrigerate for up to 1 week; soften for 30 minutes at room temperature, then knead on a bare work surface until pliable and smooth.
Adjust oven rack to middle position and preheat to 350 degrees F. Generously flour a large sheet of parchment and place one portion of dough in the center. Pat into a 5-by-6-inch rectangle, sprinkle with flour, flip, and dust again. Working from the center out and adding more flour as needed, roll the dough until roughly 15-by-11 inches and very thin. Slide onto an aluminum baking sheet and brush away excess flour. Repeat with remaining dough.
For grocery store look-alikes, score each sheet of dough into twelve 2 1/4-by-4 3/4-inch rectangles and dock with a bamboo skewer or the narrow end of a chopstick (a strictly cosmetic procedure). Otherwise, leave the dough uncut.
Bake until crackers are tawny brown and firm, though your fingertip may leave a faint indentation, about 20 minutes. Immediately cut along the pre-scored lines with a knife, or cut into free-form shapes using a pizza wheel. Cool to room temperature directly on the baking sheets. Enjoy scrap pieces as a snack, or pulverize into crumbs. The grahams can be stored in an airtight container for up to 3 weeks at room temperature or frozen for up to 3 months.
Chocolate: My mom used to sandwich chocolate graham crackers with peanut butter for an after-school snack, a combo I re-create by reducing the whole wheat flour to 10 ounces (21/4 cups), sifted with 1 ounce (1/3 cup) natural or Dutch-process cocoa powder. To retain their deep cocoa color, roll the dough in sifted cocoa powder. Serve with generous smears of peanut butter and a tall glass of milk.
Cinnamon Sugar: We rarely had sugar-coated grahams in our pantry when I was a kid, but they were always at my best friend’s house, and seemed all the more special for their rarity. For the dough, increase the cinnamon to ½ teaspoon. Before docking, dust each sheet of dough with a half batch of Cinnamon Sugar (page 44), or any Sugar Sprinkle (page 46). Otherwise, dock and bake as directed. After the crackers cool, gently tap each against the baking sheet to knock off any excess sugar.
Coconut (vegan): Replace the butter with 5 1/2 ounces (3/4 cup) virgin coconut oil (solid but creamy—about 70 degrees F) and add 1 teaspoon pure coconut extract along with the vanilla.
Gingerbread: This variation has all the spicy complexity of a Christmas cookie, with the unique flavor and crunch of a classic graham. Make the dough with sorghum or unsulfured molasses (not blackstrap) and increase the cinnamon to 1 teaspoon. Along with the sugar, add 1 tablespoon orange zest, 2 teaspoons ground ginger, 1/8 teaspoon ground cloves, and a few cracks of black pepper.
Graham Cracker Crumb Crust: Combine 9 ounces (2 cups) finely ground graham cracker crumbs with 2 ounces (4 tablespoons) melted unsalted butter. Scatter into a 9-by-1 1/4-inch glass or ceramic pie plate and press into an even layer over the bottom and up the sides. Bake at 350 degrees F until firm, about 18 minutes. Cool to room temperature for immediate use in your favorite recipe, or wrap tightly in plastic and refrigerate for up to 1 week.
Gluten-Free: Replace the whole wheat flour with 6 ounces (11/4 cups) white rice flour, 4 ounces (1 cup plus 2 tablespoons) oat flour, and 1/2 ounce (1 tablespoon) kinako.

Cranberry Spice  inchTurkey inch Cupcakes with Vanilla Cream Cheese Frosting 
1 1/4 cups sifted all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon salt
8 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1/4 cup water
1 cup fresh or frozen cranberries
4 tablespoons unsalted butter
4 cups sifted confectioners' sugar
1/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
6 ounces cream cheese
1/4 pound each brown, white, black, and orange fondant
Fondant roller
Piping gel
144 pieces of candy corn

To make the cupcakes: Preheat the oven to 350˚F, and line two cupcake pans with twelve paper baking cups each. Sift together the flour, baking powder, cinnamon, nutmeg, and salt in a bowl, and set aside.
In the bowl of a stand mixer or in a bowl with a handheld electric mixer, cream together the butter and sugar until light and fluffy, approximately 3 to 5 minutes.
Add each egg slowly, one at a time, mixing after each addition.
Add one third of the flour mixture to the butter mixture, followed by one third of the water. Mix slowly. Then add another third of the flour mixture, followed by another third of the water. Mix slowly again. Finally, add the last third of the flour mixture and the last third of the water. Mix until all the ingredients are incorporated.
Scrape down the bowl, and add the cranberries. Fold in using a spatula until the cranberries are scattered throughout the batter.
Using a standard-size ice cream scoop, fill each baking cup so that it is two-thirds full. Bake for 18 to 20 minutes or until a toothpick inserted comes out clean.
Let the cupcakes cool and then frost with Georgetown Cupcake's signature swirl (see note)
In the bowl of a stand mixer or in a bowl with a handheld electric mixer or in a bowl with a handheld electric mixer, mix all the ingredients for approximately 3 to 5 minutes, until frosting is light and airy. Frost each cupcake with a thick layer of the frosting using an offset spatula.
Roll out a small ball of brown fondant, approximately the size of a golf ball, to form the body of your turkey. Then roll out a ball of brown fondant, approximately half the size of the first ball, to form the head of your turkey. Attach the head to the body using piping gel or water.
Roll out two small balls of white fondant, each approximately the size of a pea, to form the eyeballs of your turkey.
Roll out two small balls of black fondant, each approximately the size of half a pea, to form the pupils of your turkey’s eyes. Using piping gel or water, attach the pupils to the eyeballs, and the eyeballs to the turkey’s head.
Roll out a small piece of orange fondant, and shape it into a crescent to form the turkey’s beak. Attach it to the turkey’s head using piping gel or water.
Roll out four small pieces of brown fondant and shape them into rounded teardrops to form feathers.
Let the fondant turkey and feathers set for 5 to 10 minutes, and then place the turkey on top of a cupcake, with the feathers placed behind.
Line up six pieces of candy corn, pointed side down on the brown fondant feathers behind the turkey’s body to form another layer of feathers.

Nutter Butter® Cookies 
2 cups (9 ounces) all-purpose flour, such as Gold Medal, plus more for dusting
6 tablespoons (3 ounces) unsalted butter, creamy and soft—about 68 degrees F
1/3 cup (3 ounces) creamy peanut butter, such as Skippy
1 cup (7 ounces) sugar
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon Diamond Crystal kosher salt (half as much if iodized)
2 large egg whites (1/4 cup (2 1/4 ounces))
6 tablespoons | 3 ounces unsalted butter, creamy and soft—about 68 degrees F
1/3 cup | 3 ounces creamy peanut butter, such as Skippy
1 tablespoon | 3/4 ounce honey
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon Diamond Crystal kosher salt (half as much if iodized)
1 cup | 4 ounces organic powdered sugar, sifted

Sift flour (if using a cup measure, spoon into the cup and level with a knife before sifting).
Combine butter, peanut butter, sugar, baking soda, and salt in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Mix on low speed to moisten, then increase to medium and cream until fluffy and light, about 5 minutes. Beat the whites with a fork until foamy and thin, then add to the butter and sugar in four additions, letting each incorporate before adding the next. Scrape the bowl and beater with a flexible spatula, then resume mixing on low. Sprinkle in the flour, and mix to form a soft dough.
Knead against the sides of the bowl to form a smooth ball, divide in half, and flatten into discs. Use immediately, or wrap in plastic and refrigerate for up to 1 week; soften for 30 minutes at room temperature, then knead on a bare work surface until pliable and smooth.
Adjust oven rack to middle position and preheat to 350 degrees F. On a flour-dusted surface, roll the dough until 1/2 inch thick. Sprinkle with flour, flip, sprinkle again, and roll just shy of 1/8 inch. Slide an offset spatula under the dough to loosen. Cut into  inchpeanuts inch with a 3-inch bikini cookie cutter (see Cooks' Note) or into simple 2 1/4-inch rounds and arrange on a parchment-lined aluminum baking sheet, leaving 1/4 inch between them. If you like, gently score the cutouts with a bench scraper to make a diamond pattern. Gather scraps, re-roll, and cut as before. The remaining scraps can also be baked, to grind for crumbs.
Bake until wafers are firm and dry, about 15 minutes. Cool completely on the baking sheet. Use immediately, or transfer to an airtight container and store for up to a week at room temperature or a month in the fridge.
Combine butter, peanut butter, honey, vanilla, and salt in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Mix on low speed to moisten, then sprinkle in the powdered sugar a little at a time. Once fully incorporated, increase to medium and beat until the creme is soft and light, about 5 minutes, pausing to scrape the bowl and beater halfway through. Transfer to a pastry bag fitted with a 1/2-inch plain tip.
Pipe 1/4 ounce (2 teaspoons) creme into the center of half of the rounds or 1/8 ounce (1 teaspoon) into each  inchlobe inch of a peanut. Sandwich with the remaining wafers; there are extras to account for breakage. Transfer to an airtight container and refrigerate until the filling has set, about 15 minutes. Store up to 1 week at room temperature or up to a month in the fridge; serve at room temperature.
Cookie Crumbs: Grind broken wafers and scraps in a food processor until fine; freeze in a quart zip-top bag for up to 6 months. Use to replace the graham cracker crumbs in Souffléed Cheesecake or bake into a crumb crust.
Vegan: Replace the butter in the dough and filling with an equal amount of refined coconut oil and omit the egg whites in the dough. Refrigerate for 15 minutes before rolling the dough.
Gluten-Free: Replace the all-purpose flour with 4 ounces (1 1/4 cups) oat flour, 3 ounces (2/3 cup) white rice flour, and 2 ounces (1/2 cup) coconut flour.

Soft Gingerbread Tiles with Rum Butter Glaze 
6 tbsp (85 g) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/3 packed cup plus 2 tbsp (90 g) dark brown sugar
1/4 cup (100 g) blackstrap molasses
1 large egg yolk
1 3/4 cups plus 2 tbsp (235 g) all-purpose flour, plus extra for pressing
1 tbsp Dutch-processed cocoa powder
1/2 tsp baking soda
1 tsp ground ginger
1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
1/8 tsp ground cloves
1/4 tsp salt
1/4 tsp freshly ground black pepper
2/3 cup (80 g) confectioners' sugar
1/8 tsp ground cinnamon
1 tbsp (15 g) unsalted butter, melted and warm
1 tbsp dark rum (or lemon juice)
1 tsp warm water

Place the butter, sugar and molasses in the bowl of an electric mixer with the paddle attachment in place. Beat on medium speed until smooth and incorporated. Add the egg yolk and continue to beat until fully combined.
Sift the flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, ginger, cinnamon, cloves, salt and pepper into a bowl. Turn the speed of the mixer to low, and add the dry ingredients to the butter and molasses. Once the mix comes together, tip the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and knead gently. Roll out the dough so that it is about 1/4 inch/ 0.5 cm thick. If the dough is very soft, you will need to chill it.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F/190 degrees C. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper and set aside.
Dip the cookie stamps in a small bowl of flour, shake off any excess and then press them firmly into the dough, one at a time, to create a deep imprint. How far you need to press to get an imprint will depend on your stamp; the patterns on some are more deeply cut than others. Bear in mind that the cookies rise a little when cooked, so any soft imprints will disappear. Using a round cookie cutter that is slightly larger than the pattern, cut out the pieces of imprinted gingerbread. Transfer the cookies to the lined baking sheets, spaced about 3/4 inch/2 cm apart. Reroll the dough and continue to stamp and cut cookies until all the dough is used up.
Bake for 9–10 minutes, rotating the sheets halfway through, until firm to the touch. They will continue to firm up as they cool, so don’t be tempted to bake them for any longer.
To make the rum butter glaze while the gingerbreads are in the oven, as the glaze needs to be brushed onto the cookies while they are still warm, sift the confectioners’ sugar and cinnamon into a small bowl. Add the melted butter, rum (or lemon juice) and water and mix with a spoon until smooth. The glaze will thicken slightly if it sits around, so stir through a little more warm water if you need to—it should be the consistency of runny honey.
Remove the cookies from the oven, leave them to cool for 5 minutes, then brush or dab the glaze all over with a pastry brush. Transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.
Once the dough is made, it can be covered in plastic wrap and kept in the fridge for up to 2 days before baking.
These will keep for up to 5 days in an airtight container. The glaze will discolor and crack a little, but this will not affect how they taste.

Chocolate and Pumpkin Zebra Cake 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, plus more for pan
2 1/3 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for pan
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1 (15-ounce) can pumpkin purée
1 cup whole milk, room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 cups sugar
4 large eggs, room temperature
Orange food coloring (optional)
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder, sifted
Black gel food coloring (optional)
24 ounces high-quality semisweet chocolate, chopped
3 cups heavy cream
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Black gel food coloring (optional)
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons corn syrup
2 (9 inch) round cake pans; a candy thermometer; plastic spider rings (optional)

Position a rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour cake pans. Whisk cinnamon, salt, baking powder, baking soda, allspice, ginger, cloves, and remaining 2 1/3 cups flour in a medium bowl. Mix pumpkin purée, milk, and vanilla in another medium bowl.
Cream sugar and remaining 1 cup butter in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment on medium speed, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl, until pale and fluffy, 3–4 minutes. Add eggs, one at a time, beating to blend after each addition. Reduce mixer speed to low and beat in dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with pumpkin mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients.
Transfer 6 cups batter to a large bowl. Whisk in orange food coloring, if using, a few drops at a time until desired color is achieved.
Add cocoa powder to remaining 3 cups batter and beat with stand mixer on medium-low speed until smooth. Add black gel food coloring, if using, a few drops at a time, until desired color is achieved.
Spoon 1 cup pumpkin batter into center of each prepared pan. Spoon 1/2 cup chocolate batter directly on top of pumpkin batter. Repeat 2 times with each batter, spooning batter into centers of pans and occasionally tapping pan firmly on work surface to ensure even distribution. Divide remaining chocolate batter into centers of both pans. The batter will look slightly domed at this point; carefully smooth with an offset spatula, being careful not to disturb the layers too much.
Bake cakes until centers spring back when lightly pressed, 55–60 minutes. Transfer pans to a wire rack and let cakes cool.
Place chocolate in a medium bowl. Heat cream in a small saucepan over medium. Bring to a low simmer, then immediately pour over chocolate. Let sit, undisturbed, 5 minutes. Add vanilla and whisk until smooth. Add black gel food coloring, if using, to achieve a scary black frosting. Let ganache cool at room temperature until thick, about 30 minutes.
Place 2 wooden-handled spoons or spatulas horizontally about 5 inch apart over a large bowl. Prepare an ice bath in a medium bowl.
Heat sugar, corn syrup, and 2 Tbsp. water in a small saucepan fitted with candy thermometer over medium, stirring, until sugar is dissolved. Bring to a boil over medium heat, without stirring, brushing any sugar crystals down side of pan with a pastry brush dipped in cold water. Cook until thermometer registers 300 degrees F. Immediately dip bottom of pan in ice bath, stirring with a fork. The sugar is ready once it thickens to the consistency of honey but still flows in a steady stream. Remove pan from ice bath and dip fork in hot sugar. Raise fork about 10 inch above the wooden spatulas and quickly move the fork back and forth, making thin threads of sugar. Repeat, dipping fork back into hot sugar and layering the strands. Form enough strands to create a loose mass resembling a spider web.
Spread 1 Tbsp. ganache in the center of a platter. Place 1 cake layer in the center. Evenly spread 1 1/2 cups ganache on top of cake with an offset spatula, pressing outward toward edges. Carefully place second cake layer, top side down, over, gently pressing down to secure. Evenly spread remaining ganache over top and sides. Chill at least 15 minutes to let ganache set.
When ready to serve, top with spun sugar spider web and plastic spider rings, if using.

Orange Cranberry Cupcakes 
1 1/2 cups plus 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
2/3 cup whole milk
2 tablespoons lightly packed finely grated orange zest (from 2 large oranges)
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, slightly softened
1 cup sugar
1 large egg
2 large egg whites
1 cup fresh or unthawed frozen cranberries
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, slightly softened
1/8 teaspoon fine sea salt
3 cups confectioners’ sugar, sifted
1 teaspoon whole milk
1 tablespoon lightly packed finely grated orange zest (from 1 large orange)
1 tablespoon fresh orange juice
1/8 teaspoon pure vanilla extract

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Line a 12-cup cupcake pan with paper liners.
In a medium bowl, whisk together 1 1/2 cups of the flour, the baking powder, baking soda, and salt. In a small saucepan, heat the milk and orange zest over low heat until hot (but not boiling); cool to lukewarm, 4 to 5 minutes. Stir in the vanilla.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the butter and sugar on medium-high speed until light and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. Reduce the speed to medium-low, add the egg and egg whites one at a time, and beat until creamy, 1 to 2 minutes. Slowly add half the flour mixture, then the milk mixture, then the remaining flour mixture, beating until just blended after each addition. In a small bowl, toss the cranberries with the remaining 1 tablespoon flour. Using a silicone spatula, gently fold the cranberries into the batter.
Divide the batter evenly among the liners and bake until the tops are just dry to the touch (some may be slightly golden on the sides before this happens) and a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean, 17 to 19 minutes. Transfer the pan to a wire rack and cool completely before frosting with orange frosting.
Butter two 9-inch round cake pans, line the bottoms with parchment paper cut to fit, and butter the parchment. Flour the pans, coating the bottom and sides of each pan, then tap out the excess flour. Divide the batter between the two pans and bake until the tops are dry to the touch, the sides of the cake start to pull away from the pan, and a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean (for generally the same amount of time as in the cupcake recipe). Let cool on a wire rack, then remove each cake from its pan, discard the parchment paper, and set one cake layer on a cake round, frosting turntable, or the final serving platter. Frost the top of that cake layer with the frosting, stack the second layer on top, and frost the top and sides with the remaining frosting.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the butter and salt on medium speed until light and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. Reduce the speed to low, gradually add the confectioners’ sugar, and beat until incorporated. Increase the speed to medium, add the milk, orange zest and juice, and vanilla and beat until fully blended, 1 to 2 minutes, making sure not to incorporate too much air into the frosting.

Ricotta Pie with Amarena Cherries 
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, slightly cooled, plus more for pan
1 cup slivered almonds
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
2 large egg yolks
12 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 cups whole-milk fresh ricotta
3/4 cup sour cream
2 large egg yolks
1 large egg
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
3/4 teaspoon almond extract
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
1/2 teaspoon finely grated orange zest
Amarena or Italian maraschino cherries (for serving)
A 9-inch-diameter springform pan

Place a rack in middle of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Generously butter pan and set aside. Pulse almonds, flour, sugar, and salt in a food processor until almonds are finely ground and mixture is combined. Add egg yolks and pulse to incorporate. Add 3 Tbsp. butter to mixture and pulse until dough is the consistency of wet sand.
Press crust into the bottom and 3/4 inch up the sides of prepared pan using a straight-sided measuring cup. Chill until firm, about 10 minutes.
Bake crust until evenly golden brown and set, 12–14 minutes. (If it slumps during cooking, you can always press it back into place with the measuring cup while it’s still warm.) Transfer pan to a wire rack and let crust cool.
Keep oven at 325 degrees F. Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat cream cheese in a medium bowl until no lumps remain, about 1 minute. Add ricotta and sour cream and beat until well incorporated. Add egg yolks and egg one at a time, beating well between each addition. With the motor running, gradually add sugar and salt and beat until filling is creamy and smooth, about 2 minutes. Add almond extract, vanilla extract, lemon zest, and orange zest and mix just to incorporate.
Set pan with prepared crust on a large sheet of foil and fold up foil tightly around sides of pan (you can turn 2 small sheets of foil into 1 large sheet by folding their edges together several times, then opening up like a book). Repeat with several more pieces of foil to create a waterproof seal around the bottom and up the sides of the pan. Set inside a large roasting pan or baking dish and pour filling into crust (it will go above the crust).
Set roasting pan on oven rack and carefully pour in very hot water to come about halfway up the side of the springform pan. Bake ricotta pie until the top is set and dry to touch but the filling still wobbles underneath (it will firm as it cools), 65–75 minutes. Transfer to the refrigerator and chill until cool and firm, 3–4 hours.
Slice ricotta pie and serve topped with amarena cherries.
Crust can be baked 1 day ahead. Store tightly covered at room temperature. Ricotta pie can be made 3 days ahead. Keep chilled.

Pumpkin Spice Cupcakes 
1 box (18.25 ounces) French vanilla or yellow cake mix
1 cup canned pumpkin
1 teaspoon pumpkin pie spice
3/4 cup buttermilk
1/3 cup vegetable oil
4 large eggs

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line 24 muffin cups with paper liners.
Follow the box instructions, putting all the ingredients in a large bowl and using the buttermilk in place of the water specified, using the amount of vegetable oil that is called for, and adding the eggs. Beat with an electric mixer until moistened, about 30 seconds. Increase the speed to high and beat until thick, 2 minutes longer.
Spoon half the batter into a ziplock bag. Snip 1/4 inch corner from the bag and fill the paper liners two-thirds full. Repeat with the remaining batter. Bake until golden and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, 15 to 20 minutes. Remove the cupcakes from the baking pans, place on a wire rack, and allow to cool completely.

Peanut Butter and Sour Cherry Cheesecake 
Butter, for greasing
75g (about 1/2 cup) dried sour cherries, plus extra for decorating
1 tbsp caster (superfine) sugar
1 tsp vanilla bean paste
1 tbsp kirsch (optional)
175g digestive biscuits
25g (about 2 tbsp) salted peanuts, plus extra for decorating
75g (5 1/4 tbsp) unsalted butter, melted
400g (about 1 3/4 [8oz] packages) full-fat cream cheese
150g (3/4 cup) caster (superfine) sugar
2 egg yolks
250g (1 cup) heavy cream
5 leaves gelatin
150g (1/2 cup) smooth peanut butter
75g (2.6 ounces) dark chocolate, chopped
1 tbsp golden syrup
100ml (about 1/2 cup) double cream
A 20cm (8-inch) round springform tin

Grease a 20cm (8-inch) springform tin and line with baking parchment.
Put the dried sour cherries into a small saucepan with the sugar, vanilla, and 1 tablespoon of water. If you are using kirsch, add this now. Bring to the boil and leave to simmer for 4–5 minutes. The cherries should soften and absorb some of the liquid. Set the pan to one side to cool.
To make the biscuit base, blitz the digestive biscuits and peanuts in a food processor until they resemble very fine crumbs. Pour the melted butter into the crumbs and blitz again until all the biscuit crumbs are coated in butter. Alternatively, finely chop the peanuts and place into a plastic bag with the biscuits, use a rolling pin to crush them to a fine powder, then put into a bowl and stir in the butter. Tip the crumbs into the base of the prepared tin, then press them down firmly with the back of a teaspoon to make sure they stick together, then chill for at least 30 minutes.
In a large bowl, whisk together the cream cheese, caster sugar and egg yolks until smooth. Stir in the cream until you get a thick but not stiff consistency.
Soak the gelatin leaves in cold water and allow to soften completely. This will take around five minutes. Melt the smooth peanut butter in the microwave in a medium bowl for about 30 seconds until it is even smoother. Squeeze the gelatin leaves to remove any excess water, then stir into the warm peanut butter until completely dissolved.
Spoon a few tablespoons of the cream cheese mixture into the peanut butter and mix well, before pouring all of the peanut butter mixture into the remaining cream cheese and stirring until completely smooth.
Drain the cherries then add half to the cream cheese mixture and stir in. Spread onto the prepared biscuit base and use a spatula to smooth the top. Leave to set in the refrigerator, preferably overnight, but for at least four hours.
When the cheesecake feels firm enough to hold a layer of chocolate (usually after around two hours of chilling), make the chocolate topping. Place the chocolate, golden syrup and cream into a small bowl. Microwave on high for around one minute, removing from the microwave and stirring well every 15 seconds, until the mixture is smooth and no lumps of chocolate remain. Pour over the cheesecake, tilting the tin until the whole top is covered. Decorate with the remaining sour cherries and peanuts. Chill for two hours before serving.

Cinnamon Apple Cupcakes 
1 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup butter, softened
2 eggs
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup whole milk
1/4 cup sour cream
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup self-rising flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons cinnamon
1 apple, diced finely
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1/2 tablespoon cinnamon
1/2 cup butter, softened
4 ounces (about 1/2 cup) cream cheese
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 cups powdered sugar
2 teaspoons cinnamon
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons white sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup buttermilk
1 egg
1/2 tablespoon vegetable oil
1 1/2 apples, chopped
2 cups vegetable oil, for frying
Cinnamon and sugar, for garnish

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line two standard cupcake tins with 15 paper liners.
Using a stand or hand mixer, cream together the sugar and butter on medium speed in a large bowl.
Slowly add in eggs, one at a time, and mix on medium speed until combined.
Reduce speed to low and add vanilla extract, milk, and sour cream.
In a separate bowl, combine both flours, baking soda, salt, and cinnamon. Slowly add dry ingredients to wet ingredients, and mix on medium speed until smooth, about 2 minutes.
Using a large spoon, fill the cupcake liners three-quarters full and bake for 18 to 20 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean.
In a small saucepan over low heat, combine diced apple with sugar and cinnamon.
Simmer for 15 minutes, stirring occasionally, until apples are soft.
Set aside to fill cupcakes with later.
With a hand or stand mixer, beat softened butter and cream cheese together on medium speed for 3 minutes.
Add vanilla and mix on medium speed until thoroughly combined.
Slowly add powdered sugar and beat on low for 1 minute.
Add cinnamon and gradually increase the speed to high and beat for 3 minutes, until fluffy.
Combine flour and next seven ingredients including apples in a medium bowl.
Heat the 2 cups vegetable oil in a frying pan over medium high heat for 3 minutes. Lower heat to medium, and using an ice cream scoop or large spoon, drop 1/4 cupfuls of batter into the hot oil.
Fry about 2 to 3 minutes on each side, until golden. Remove fritters with a slotted spoon, and place on a plate lined with a paper towel to absorb the excess oil.
Continue until all the batter is gone, being careful not to overcrowd the pan while frying.
While hot, sprinkle the fritters with cinnamon and sugar.
After cooled, cut fritters into pieces to top cupcakes.
Once cool, poke small holes in each cupcake, using a circle pastry tip or an apple corer. Insert one tablespoon of the Cinnamon Apple Filling into each cupcake. Gently pipe each cupcake with Cinnamon Cream Cheese Frosting. Garnish with an Apple Fritter Topping piece on top of each cupcake.

Salted Brown Butter Cookies 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
1/2 cup lightly packed brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/3 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
Coarse-flake sea salt for sprinkling (preferably fleur de sel)

Preheat the oven to 325˚F. Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper.
In a saucepan over medium heat, melt the butter until it starts to brown. When the butter has browned and is ready, the foam will have subsided and it will have turned a nutty color. Watch closely so as not to burn the butter. Pour the browned butter into a medium bowl and stir in the brown sugar and vanilla. In a small bowl, whisk the flour and baking powder together. With a spoon, stir the flour mixture into the butter mixture until combined. Drop the dough by tablespoonfuls onto the cookie sheet. Sprinkle with sea salt and lightly press it into the top of cookies. Bake for 12 minutes.

Tahini Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons honey
3/4 cup tahini
1/4 cup toasted sesame seeds

Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat butter, sugar, and honey in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in tahini, then add dry ingredients in 2 batches, beating after each addition until fully combined. Dough will be slightly sticky.
Place sesame seeds in a small bowl. Scoop out heaping tablespoons of dough (about 1 oz.) and roll into balls. Dip tops of balls in sesame seeds, pressing to adhere, and place, sesame side up, on 2 parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing about 2 inch apart. Bake cookies, rotating baking sheets halfway through, until golden brown, 13–15 minutes. Let cool on baking sheets (cookies will firm as they cool).

Apple Pie Cookies 
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon kosher salt
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for surface
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into small pieces, frozen 15 minutes
1 tablespoon chilled apple cider vinegar
2 medium Honeycrisp, Braeburn, and/or Golden Delicious apples (about 1 pound total)
1/4 cup light brown sugar
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
2 teaspoons all-purpose flour, plus more for surface
1 large egg
1 tablespoon milk
Demerara or raw sugar (for sprinkling; optional)
A 3 inch round cookie or biscuit cutter; a small (about 1 1/2 inch) leaf-shaped or round cookie cutter

Pulse sugar, salt, and 2 1/2 cups flour in a food processor to combine. Add butter and pulse until coarse, pea-sized crumbs form, about 10 seconds. With the motor running, add vinegar and 1/4 cup ice water and process until dough just comes together, about 30 seconds. Squeeze a small amount of dough between your fingertips; if it's very crumbly, add more ice water, 1 Tbsp. at a time (2 Tbsp. maximum). Do not overprocess.
Turn out dough onto a lightly floured surface and form into a rough ball. Knead a few times to combine, then divide into 2 equal balls. Flatten each ball into a disc with smooth edges and no cracks. Cover with plastic wrap and chill at least 1 hour or up to overnight.
Peel, core, and slice apples into 1/4 inch-thick slices. Coarsely chop slices. Transfer to a large pot and add brown sugar, lemon juice, cinnamon, salt, 2 tsp. flour, and 2 Tbsp. water; stir to combine. Cook over medium heat, stirring occasionally and adding water 1 Tbsp. at a time if bottom starts to brown, until apples are softened but still have a little bite, about 10 minutes. Let cool to room temperature.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Beat egg and milk in a small bowl.
Roll 1 disc of dough to an 1/8 inch-thick round about 13 inch in diameter. Using 3 inch cutter, cut dough into 12 rounds. Transfer rounds to prepared baking sheet. Spoon 1 heaping Tbsp. filling onto each round (do not overfill). Chill on sheet until ready to use.
Roll second disc of dough to an 1/8 inch-thick round about 13 inch in diameter. Using 3 inch cutter, cut into 12 more rounds. Using leaf-shaped cutter, cut a hole in center of each round.
Brush edges of rounds with apple filling with egg wash. Place cut-out rounds over filled rounds to create sandwiches, then press down lightly around edges to seal completely. Gently press down in center to even out filling.
Brush top of sandwiches with egg wash and sprinkle with demerara sugar, if using.
Bake cookies until golden brown and crisp on the bottom, 30–35 minutes. Let cool on baking sheet 5 minutes, then transfer to a wire rack and let cool completely.
Cookies can be baked 2 days ahead. Loosely cover with foil and store at room temperature. Do not store in a sealed container or they will become too soft.

Chocolate–Almond Praline Cookies 
3/4 cup skin-on almonds
Nonstick vegetable oil spray (optional)
1/3 cup granulated sugar
5 tablespoon unsalted butter
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/3 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup bittersweet chocolate wafers (disks, pistoles, fèves) or chocolate chips
Flaky sea salt

Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Toast almonds on a rimmed baking sheet on upper rack, tossing halfway through, until slightly darkened in color and fragrant, 6–8 minutes. Let cool.
Gather almonds into a tight pile on a nonstick silicone baking mat or a rimmed baking sheet coated with nonstick spray. Cook granulated sugar in a small saucepan over medium heat, undisturbed, until it begins to liquefy and turn golden brown around the edges. Use a heatproof rubber spatula to incorporate melted sugar into unmelted sugar and continue to cook, stirring occasionally, until all sugar is melted and caramel turns a medium amber color, 6–8 minutes. Carefully pour caramel over almonds and let cool.
Break almond mixture into large pieces and transfer to a food processor. Process, scraping down sides occasionally, until praline paste is very smooth and creamy, about 4 minutes.
Cook butter in a medium skillet over medium heat, swirling occasionally, until it foams, then browns, about 5 minutes. Let cool until just warm.
Whisk flour, kosher salt, and baking soda in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat brown butter, praline paste, and brown sugar in a large bowl until mixture is smooth, about 2 minutes. Reduce speed to medium, add egg yolk and vanilla, and beat just to combine. Reduce speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients. Mix until mostly combined. Using a wooden spoon, mix in chocolate. Scrape out dough onto a sheet of parchment paper and roll up into a 1 3/4 inch-diameter log. Chill until very firm, at least 2 hours.
Reheat oven to 350 degrees F. Slice dough into generous 1/4 inch-thick slices with a serrated knife and place on 2 parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Sprinkle with sea salt and bake until cookies are firm around the edges and slightly darker, 9–10 minutes. Let cool on baking sheets.
Praline paste can be made 1 week ahead; store airtight at room temperature. Dough can be made 3 days ahead; wrap in plastic and keep chilled, or freeze up to 1 month.

Vegan Apple Cider Cupcakes 
2 cups apple cider
1 tablespoon agar flakes or 1 teaspoon agar powder
2 cinnamon sticks
1/2 teaspoon whole cloves
1/2 teaspoon whole allspice
1/2 cup apple butter
1/4 cup maple syrup
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1/3 cup vegetable oil
2 teaspoons apple cider vinegar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/3 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
Vegan Fluffy Buttercream Frosting
Brown Rice Caramel Glaze

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line a muffin tray with cupcake liners.
Place apple cider, agar agar, cinnamon sticks, cloves and allspice in a small saucepan. If using agar flakes, let mixture soak for 10 minutes; if using powder, proceed to the next step.
Sift together flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt.
In a separate bowl, mix together the apple butter, maple syrup, sugar, vegetable oil, apple cider vinegar and vanilla.
Bring the apple cider mixture to a boil, then lower heat to bring it to a low rolling boil, careful not to let it boil over. Boil for about 15 minutes, until the cider is reduced to 1 1/4 cups and the agar agar is dissolved. (If the cider hasn’t reduced enough, boil longer. If it has reduced too much, add extra apple cider to make up for the difference.) Stir frequently because the agar agar tends to stick to the sides of the pan.
Strain the apple cider and discard the spices. Let cool to lukewarm, then add the apple cider to the apple butter mixture and mix well. Add the flour mixture to the wet ingredients in roughly three batches, mixing well after each addition.
Spray the cupcake liners with nonstick cooking spray. Fill each liner three-quarters full. Bake for 22 to 25 minutes, until a toothpick inserted into the center of a cupcake comes out clean.
Transfer to a cooling rack and let cool completely before frosting.
Pipe the buttercream or agave icing onto the cupcakes and sprinkle some cinnamon or cinnamon sugar on top of it. Use a spoon to drizzle the caramel over the frosting. It would be cute to stick a cinnamon stick into the frosting if you are feeling fancy-pants.

2-Minute Chocolate Chip and Pecan Cookie 
1 rounded tablespoon vegan butter
2 tablespoons soft brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon pecan nuts, lightly chopped or crumbled by hand
4 tablespoons plain (all-purpose) flour
1 tablespoon dark chocolate chips

In a microwave-safe bowl, spoon in the vegan butter and melt in an 850W microwave for 30 seconds.
Stir in the brown sugar, vanilla extract, pecan nuts, and plain flour into the melted vegan butter to form a dough, then stir through the chocolate chips.
Spoon the mixture as a single cookie onto a microwave-safe plate, then microwave for 1 minute 30 seconds until cooked.

Brownie Ice-Cream Sandwich 
1 x My Favorite Brownie recipe
200ml (3/4 cup) sweetened condensed milk
600ml (2 1/2 cups) heavy cream
1 tsp vanilla bean paste
100g (3.5-oz) Oreos, or cookie of your choice
You will also need two or three 20x30cm (8x12-inch) brownie tins and an electric handheld whisk.

Line one 20x30cm (8x12-inch) tin with cling film.
In a large bowl, whisk together the condensed milk, heavy cream, and vanilla using an electric hand-held whisk until the mixture thickens and holds its shape when you take the whisk out. Put the cookies into a plastic bag and bash them with a rolling pin to make crumbs. If you want larger chunks, you could crumble them by hand. Fold the cookie crumbs into the ice-cream mixture, then scrape into the prepared tin. Use a spatula to smooth it out, then freeze for at least two hours or until firm.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F/180 degrees C/160 degrees C fan/gas 4. Make My Favorite Brownie recipe up to step 4, but don't put the mixture in the tin yet.
Divide the brownie mixture between two lined 20x30cm (8x12-inch) brownie tins (or use one and bake two batches) and use a spatula to spread the batter right into the edges. It will be very thin, as these will be your sandwich layers. Bake each tray for ten minutes, then remove from the oven and leave to cool completely in the tin.
Remove the brownie layers from the tins and re-line one of the tins with another sheet of baking parchment. Put one brownie layer into the tin, then press the ice-cream layer on the top of it. Add the final layer then return to the freezer for at least 30 minutes.
Remove the ice-cream sandwich slab from the freezer about ten minutes before serving. Use a sharp knife or pastry cutter to cut shapes—I like the effect of a circular cutter.

Blackberry-Tahini Yogurt Cake 
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom or cinnamon
4 tablespoons plus 1 cup sugar
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt, plus more
2 large eggs
1 cup plain whole-milk yogurt
1/2 cup vegetable oil
2 teaspoons finely grated lemon, lime, or orange zest
2 cups fresh (or frozen, thawed) blackberries
1/4 cup tahini

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat a 9 inch-diameter cake pan with nonstick spray; line bottom with a parchment paper round. Lightly coat parchment with nonstick spray. Mix cardamom and 2 Tbsp. sugar in a small bowl; set aside.
Whisk flour, baking powder, 1 cup sugar, and 1/2 tsp. salt in a large bowl. Make a well in the center; add eggs, yogurt, oil, and citrus zest and whisk to combine. Switch to a wooden spoon or rubber spatula and gradually work in dry ingredients, mixing until smooth. Fold in berries; scrape batter into prepared pan.
Mix tahini, a pinch of salt, and remaining 2 Tbsp. sugar in another small bowl. Drizzle evenly over batter; sprinkle reserved cardamom sugar over top.
Bake cake until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 50–60 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack; let cool in pan. Invert onto a plate, then turn right side up.
Cake can be baked 2 days ahead. Store tightly covered at room temperature.

Larry the Turkey Cupcakes 
24 standard Pumpkin Spice cupcakes baked in white paper liners
24 mini Pumpkin Spice cupcakes baked in white paper liners
1 cup vanilla frosting
1/2 cup chocolate frosting
24 thin ginger-flavored scalloped cookies (Anna’s Ginger Thins)
2 cups candy corn
1 1/2 cups caramel jimmies
1 can (16 ounces) plus 1 cup caramel frosting
24 pieces Indian candy corn
48 brown chocolate-covered sunflower seeds (available at gourmet candy stores)
1 roll red fruit leather (Fruit by the Foot)
24 graham cracker sticks (Honey Made Graham Sticks)
12 marshmallows

Spoon the vanilla and chocolate frosting into separate ziplock bags, press out the excess air, and seal. Snip a 1/8 inch corner from the bag with the vanilla frosting and pipe a dot of frosting on 7 adjacent scallops on each ginger cookie to make the tail fan. Add a piece of candy corn to each dot of frosting, pointed end facing in.
Place the caramel jimmies in a small shallow bowl. Spread the caramel frosting on top of all the cupcakes, standard and mini, and smooth. Roll the edge of the standard cupcakes in the jimmies. Dip the top edge of the mini cupcakes in the jimmies.
Press 1 piece of Indian candy corn into the center of each mini cupcake, flat side down, for the break. Pipe 2 dots of the vanilla frosting above the break for the eyes and insert 2 brown sunflower seeds, pointed end down. Cut the red fruit leather into twenty-four 1 1/2 inch long teardrop shapes and lay them over the beak to make the wattle.
Snip a 1/8 inch corner from the bag with the chocolate frosting and pipe names on the flat side of the graham cracker cookies.
Enlarge the hole in the corner of the bag with the chocolate frosting to 1/4 inch. Using clean scissors, cut the marshmallows in half on the diagonal. Place 1 marshmallow half, cut side down, near the edge of one of the standard cupcakes, with the tapered end facing the center, to make a support for the tail. Pipe a dot of chocolate frosting on the tapered end. Place the tail cookie on the marshmallow, pressing the undecorated edge into the frosting on the marshmallow. Add the mini cupcake head on top so that half of it is resting on the undecorated edge of the cookie and the other half is pressed lightly into the frosting to secure.
Add the graham cookies at the base of the mini cupcakes, securing with a dot of frosting.
Arrange the turkeys on the table as place cards. Place 2 candy corns on the table in front of each turkey to make the feet.

Pumpkin Patch Cupcakes 
12 standard Pumpkin Spice cupcakes baked in orange paper liners
24 mini Pumpkin Spice cupcakes baked in white paper liners
4 green licorice twists (Twizzlers Rainbow Twists)
1 can (16 ounces) plus 1 cup vanilla frosting
Orange food coloring (available at baking supply stores)
1 cup orange decorating sugar (available at baking supply stores)
Green licorice laces (Watermelon Madness Fruit Streamers)

Cut the licorice twists into thirty-six 3/4-inch pieces for the pumpkin stems. Tint the vanilla frosting orange with the food coloring. Tint 1/2 cup of the orange frosting a darker shade of orange with more food coloring, and spoon into a ziplock bag. Press out the excess air, seal the bag, and set aside.
Place the orange decorating sugar in a shallow bowl. Spread the lighter orange frosting on top of the cupcakes, mounding it slightly. Starting on the edge, roll the cupcake tops in the sugar to cover completely.
Use a wooden skewer to mark ridges in the top of each cupcake. Starting in the center or slightly off center, lightly press the skewer down toward the top of the paper liner to create 5 or 6 indentations. Snip a 1/16-inch corner from the bag with the darker orange frosting and pipe a line in each indentation to make the ribs. Insert a cut green twist for the stem. Arrange the cupcakes on a serving platter or a cutting board and add the green licorice laces, trimmed to various lengths, for the tendrils.

Chewy Chocolate Chip Cookies 
200g (about 14 tablespoons) cold unsalted butter, chopped
1 cup (175g) brown sugar
3/4 cup (165g) white (granulated) sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 tablespoons milk
1 egg
2 cups (300g) plain (all-purpose) flour
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon table salt
300g dark chocolate, chopped

Preheat oven to 180 degrees C (350 degrees F).
Place the butter and both the sugars in the bowl of an electric mixer and beat on low speed until just combined.
Increase the speed to medium and beat for 8 minutes or until pale and creamy, scraping down the sides of the bowl.
Add the vanilla, milk and egg and beat for 2 minutes or until light and fluffy.
Sift in the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt and beat until combined.
Add the chocolate and stir to combine.
Roll heaped tablespoons of the mixture into balls and place on lightly greased baking trays lined with non-stick baking paper. Bake for 12–14 minutes or until golden brown.
Allow to cool on the trays for 5 minutes before transferring onto wire racks to cool.

Autumn Leaves Cupcake Wreath 
24 chocolate cupcakes baked in brown paper liners
100 small fresh maple leaves
1 cup orange candy melting wafers (available at baking supply stores)
1 cup green candy melting wafers (available at baking supply stores)
1 cup milk chocolate melting wafers (available at baking supply stores)
1 bag (14 ounces) caramels, unwrapped
3/4 cup chocolate jimmies
1 can (16 ounces) chocolate frosting

Wash the maple leaves with warm water and pat dry on paper towels. Line several cookie sheets with wax paper. Place the orange candy, green candy, and milk chocolate melting wafers into separate microwavable bowls. Microwave each bowl separately, stirring occasionally, until the candy is smooth, about 1 minute. Using a small, clean craft brush or your fingertip, paint spots in the 3 different colors of melted candy in an even layer (not too thin) over the top side of each leaf. While the candy is still wet, swirl the colors slightly to blend. Place the leaf on one of the cookie sheets, coated side up. Repeat with the remaining leaves. If the candy becomes too thick, reheat in the microwave for several seconds, stirring frequently. Place the cookie sheets in the refrigerator until the candy is set, about 5 minutes.
Carefully peel the leaves from the hardened candy. They come off surprisingly easily. Use a toothpick or clean tweezers to remove any small pieces of leaf that may remain. (The leaves and other candy pieces can be made up to 5 days in advance, covered, and kept in a cool dry place.)
Line a cookie sheet with wax paper. Spoon the remaining milk chocolate into a small bowl to use for the acorn tops. Soften 4 or 5 caramels at a time in the microwave for 3 to 4 seconds. Roll each caramel into an acorn (egg) shape. Place the chocolate jimmies in a small shallow bowl. Reheat the milk chocolate in the microwave, stirring often, until smooth, about 10 seconds. Dip the large end of an acorn caramel into the melted chocolate to cover about 1/4 inch. Allow any excess chocolate to drip off. While the acorn is still wet, dip the chocolate end into the jimmies to coat. Transfer to the cookie sheet. Repeat with the remaining acorns. Refrigerate until set, about 5 minutes.
Spoon 1/4 cup of the chocolate frosting into a ziplock bag, press out the excess air, and seal. Spread the tops of the cupcakes with the remaining chocolate frosting and smooth. Arrange the cupcakes in pairs to make a circle on a large platter.
Gently press the leaves into the frosting on the cupcakes, overlapping them. The leaves on the edge of the right half of the wreath will sweep to the right, while those on the left half will sweep to the left. Place the acorns randomly over the cupcakes. Snip a 1/8-inch corner from the bag with the chocolate frosting and pipe a dot of frosting at the top of each acorn to make a stem.

Raspberry and Pistachio Friands 
200g (1 3/4 sticks/14 Tbsp) butter, plus extra for greasing
100g (3/4 cup) pistachio nuts, plus a few extra to serve
200g (1 2/3 cups) confectioners' sugar, plus more for dusting
85g (3/4 cup plus 2 1/4 Tbsp) ground almonds
85g (2/3 cup) all-purpose flour
5 large egg whites
1 small container raspberries
8- or 12-hole muffin or friand tin and a food processor.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F/180 degrees C/160 degrees C fan/gas 4. Melt the butter in a small pan, then remove from the heat and leave to cool a little. Grease eight holes of the friand (or muffin) tin with a little bit of butter.
Blitz 85g (2/3 cup) of the pistachio nuts in a food processor with the confectioners' sugar until very finely chopped. Tip into a bowl with the ground almonds and flour and mix together. Roughly chop the remaining pistachio nuts and set aside.
Froth the egg whites lightly with a fork, then pour into the nuts and flour mixture with the melted butter and mix well.
Pour the mixture into the friand tin holes, add a few raspberries to each one, then scatter with the chopped pistachios. Bake for 20–25 minutes until the friands are risen and springy to the touch and a skewer inserted comes out clean.
Serve warm or at room temperature. Dust with a little confectioners' sugar if you like. They should be light and chewy!
Pecan Pie Friands: Make the friand recipe above, swapping pistachios for 100g (1 cup) pecans and the raspberries for 75g (2.6 oz) chewy toffee, chopped into small pieces. Sprinkle the toffee over the friand batter before baking.

Oatmeal Ice Cream Cookie Sandwiches 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
1 1/2 ounces store-bought waffle cones, lightly crushed
1 1/2 cups old-fashioned oats
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
3/4 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1 large egg yolk
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
4 pints ice cream (any flavors)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Cook butter in a medium saucepan over medium heat, swirling often, until it foams, then browns, 5–8 minutes. Scrape brown butter and toasty solids into a heatproof measuring glass and let cool.
Process waffle cones, oats, flour, and salt in a food processor in long pulses until oats are broken up and cones are finely ground. Add brown sugar and pulse to combine. Whisk egg yolk, vanilla, and 2 Tbsp. water in a small bowl. With the motor running, slowly drizzle into food processor, then stream in brown butter; process until dough forms a ball around the blade.
Portion out slightly rounded tablespoonfuls of dough to make 26 balls (each should weigh about 3/4 oz.). Roll balls between your palms to smooth and divide between 2 parchment-lined rimmed baking sheets, spacing 3 inch apart (the cookies will spread as they bake). Cover with another sheet of parchment paper and use the bottom of a glass to flatten each into a 2 1/2 inch round.
Bake cookies, rotating sheets front to back and top to bottom halfway through, until golden all over and browned around the edges, 12–15 minutes. Let cool on baking sheets; use a thin metal spatula to loosen cookies from parchment. Turn half of cookies over (you’ll have 2 extra).
Remove 2 pints of ice cream (same flavor) from containers (just peel away container if it’s paper, or use a rubber spatula to help slide ice cream out intact if container is plastic). Cut ice cream into 2” pieces and place in a large bowl. Let sit until slightly softened, about 5 minutes, then stir with a wooden spoon or a large rubber spatula until the consistency of thick cake batter.
Using a 4-oz. ice cream scoop or 1/2-cup measuring cup, and working one at a time or in small batches, scoop out large domes of ice cream onto upside-down cookies. Top each with a right-side-up cookie, then press down gently until ice cream extends to the edges. Transfer sandwiches to a rimmed baking sheet set in the freezer as you work. Repeat softening process with remaining 2 pints of ice cream and assemble remaining sandwiches.
Freeze sandwiches until ice cream is hard, about 2 hours. Cover tray with plastic wrap and freeze at least another 8 hours to let cookies soften.
Cookies can be baked 1 week ahead; transfer to a resealable plastic freezer bag and freeze. Sandwiches can be assembled 5 days ahead; keep frozen.

Grilled Apricots with Almond Cream and Fregolotta 
1/2 cup blanched almonds
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup fine-grind cornmeal
2 teaspoons flaky sea salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
16 ripe apricots, halved, pitted
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 1/2 cups heavy cream
1 teaspoon almond extract (optional)
Honey (for serving)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Toast almonds on a rimmed baking sheet, tossing once, until golden brown and fragrant, 6–8 minutes. Let cool; pulse in a food processor until mostly finely ground but there are still bits of almond.
Mix almonds, flour, sugar, cornmeal, and salt in a large bowl, then add butter and vanilla and almond extracts and work in with your fingers or the handle of a sturdy wooden spoon. Scatter crumble, trying not to break it up too much, on a rimmed baking sheet and bake, tossing halfway through, until golden brown, 20–25 minutes. Let cool.
Prepare a grill for medium heat. Brush the cut side of each apricot half with oil and grill apricots, cut side down, until lightly charred and juices start to seep out of fruit, 6–8 minutes. Using a metal spatula, carefully turn apricots and grill a minute or so until the other side is lightly charred. Transfer to a plate.
Using an electric mixer, beat cream in a medium bowl until medium peaks form. Fold in almond extract, if using.
Divide warm apricots among plates. Spoon some whipped cream on top. Drizzle with honey and scatter fregolotta crumble over.

My Favorite Vanilla Cupcakes 
175g (1 1/3 cups) all-purpose flour
200g (about 1 cup) superfine sugar
75g (5 1/4 Tbsp) butter
1 1/2 tsp baking powder
2 eggs, at room temperature
90ml (1/3 cup) whole milk, at room temperature
1 tsp vanilla bean paste
Stand mixer, 12-hole cupcake tin, and paper cupcake cases.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F/180 degrees C/160 degrees C fan/gas 4. Line the cupcake tin with 12 cupcake cases. In the bowl of a stand mixer, combine the flour, sugar, butter, and baking powder using the paddle attachment. Mix on a low speed until the mixture resembles fine breadcrumbs. You shouldn't see any large lumps of butter. Alternatively, use your fingers to rub the butter into the flour and sugar.
In a small jug, use a fork to blend the eggs, milk, and vanilla bean paste together. Add the mixture a little at a time to the bowl, beating until it is all combined. Keep beating for a few minutes more, until the mixture is uniform and smooth with no lumps.
Divide the mixture between the cases evenly, filling each one no more than two-thirds full. Bake in the preheated oven for 16–18 minutes, until a skewer inserted comes out clean and the cakes are a pale golden brown. Don’t be tempted to over-bake here; get them out as soon as the skewer is clean. The last thing you want is dry cakes!
Leave to cool for five minutes in the tin, then remove and leave to cool completely on a cooling rack. Do not attempt to core, fill or decorate them until they are cold.

Malted Milk Piñata Cake 
120g (1/2 cup) butter, plus extra for greasing
125g (1/2 cup) caster sugar
250g (1 1/8 cups) soft light brown sugar
300g (2 1/3 cups) all-purpose flour
3 tsp baking powder
2 tbsp malted milk powder
1/2 tsp salt
300ml (1 1/4 cups) whole milk
3 eggs
1 tsp vanilla bean paste
50ml (1/4 cups) whole milk
2 tbsp malted milk powder
150g (2/3 cup) unsalted butter, softened
350g (2 3/4 cups) icing sugar
Approximately 300g milk bottle sweets (ideally the floury kind, they are less sticky)
Colored paper straws

Preheat the oven to 180 degrees C (350 degrees F). Grease three 18cm (7 inch) cake tins and line with parchment paper.
Put the butter, sugars, flour, baking powder, malt powder and salt into the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. Mix on low until all the butter is rubbed into the dry mixture and it has a sandy texture. Alternatively, rub the butter into the dry ingredients by hand, as if you were making pastry.
In a small jug, beat together the milk, eggs and vanilla. Pour the mixture down the side of the bowl into the dry ingredients and beat until everything is mixed together. When all the liquid has been added, beat on a high speed for two minutes until it is well combined and smooth. Alternatively, you could use an electric hand-held whisk.
Divide the mixture evenly between the prepared tins and bake in the preheated oven for 25–30 minutes until golden brown. The cake will look slightly darker than you might expect with the added malted milk powder, so be more vigilant in checking that it is ready.
Heat the milk and malted milk powder in a small saucepan. Whisk until all the lumps of powder have dissolved and the mixture has thickened slightly. Set aside to cool. Beat the butter in a large bowl until smooth, then gradually add the icing sugar and cool malted milk paste. Use an electric hand-held whisk to beat the buttercream for 5–10 minutes until light and fluffy. It should hold its shape but still be fairly soft.
To assemble the cake, stack the bottom two layers on top of each other and use a circular 9cm cutter to remove the middle. Press through both layers at once to make sure the holes line up.
Put the bottom ring on a cake stand and cover the top with a layer of buttercream using a palette knife. Try not to get icing too close to the middle, because moisture on the sweets will cause them to become sticky.
Put the second ring on top of the first and fill the hole with milk bottle sweets. Make sure it is filled to the same level as the sponge or the top sponge will cave in. Cover the second ring with buttercream then add the final sponge. Thinly cover the whole cake with some of the buttercream to trap any crumbs, then chill for a minimum of 30 minutes.
Cover the cake with the remaining buttercream, placing a large dollop on the top to create a swirl. Decorate using more milk bottle sweets and coloured paper straws.

My Favorite Brownie 
150g (2/3 cup, packed) light brown sugar
225g (1 cup plus 2 tbsp) superfine sugar
225g (1 cup/2 sticks) butter
150g (5.25 ounces) dark chocolate, chopped
3 eggs
115g (1 cup) plain flour
75g (3/4 cup) cocoa powder
150g (5.25 ounces/about 1 cup) chocolate chips
You will also need a 20x30cm (8x12-inch) brownie tin.

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F/200 degrees C/180 degrees C fan/gas 6 and line a 20x30cm (8x12-inch) tin with baking parchment.
Put the sugars and butter into a large saucepan and heat on medium until the butter has melted. Simmer the mixture for five minutes to allow the sugar to begin to melt, stirring all the time. It should lose its grainy appearance and the butter will combine with the sugar. Remove from the heat.
Add the chopped dark chocolate to the warm sugar and butter mixture and stir it in until it is completely melted. Leave to cool to room temperature.
When the mixture is cool enough to touch comfortably, beat in the eggs. Add the flour and cocoa powder before stirring briefly to combine. You don't want to overbeat the mixture or your brownies will become too 'cakey'. Fold through the chocolate chips and scrape into the prepared tin.
Bake for 20–25 minutes or until the top is shiny and slightly cracked. It will feel slightly underbaked, but for gooey, sticky brownies this is perfect. Leave to cool completely in the tin, then chill in the fridge for an hour to get the ultimate, fudgy center, then cut into squares.

Chocolate Sour Cream Zucchini Cake with Chocolate Glaze 
Butter for the pan
3 cups grated zucchini (about 2 smallish ones)
3/4 teaspoon salt, plus more for salting the zucchini
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1 2/3 cups sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup vegetable oil or light olive oil
2 large eggs, at room temperature
1 1/4 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup sour cream, at room temperature
Chocolate Glaze

Put the grated zucchini in a colander placed over a large bowl. Salt it lightly, tossing gently to mix. Set aside for 30 minutes to drain.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (170 degrees C). Butter a 9x9-inch cake pan.
Sift the flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder, and 3/4 teaspoon salt into a bowl.
Combine the sugar, butter, oil, eggs, and vanilla in another large bowl. Using an electric mixer (handheld is fine), beat the ingredients on medium-high speed for 2 minutes, until well blended. Add one-third of the dry mixture to the liquid and blend it in on low speed. Beat in half of the sour cream, followed by another third of the dry mixture, the rest of the sour cream, and the remaining dry mixture. The batter will start to get heavier late in the mixing, and you may want to do the last bit of mixing with a wooden spoon or rubber spatula.
Lift the zucchini out of the colander and give it a gentle squeeze, but don’t squeeze out all the moisture. Add the zucchini to the batter and fold it in with a rubber spatula until evenly mixed. Scrape the batter into the pan and smooth with a spoon.
Bake the cake on the middle oven rack for 60 to 70 minutes, until a tester inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean. Transfer the cake to a cooling rack and cool thoroughly.
When the cake has cooled, prepare the glaze, rewarming it if it has firmed up. When it has thickened slightly but is still thin enough to pour easily, slowly pour it over the cake, tilting the cake to spread it around. Cool for at least 10 minutes before slicing and serving.

Classic Yellow Cake with Chocolate Frosting 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3 cups cake flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup whole milk, room temperature
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
6 large egg yolks, room temperature
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 cups powdered sugar
1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 cup whole milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Sprinkles (for serving; optional)
2 (9 inch) round cake pans

Arrange a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat cake pans with nonstick spray. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper; lightly coat parchment with nonstick spray.
Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl. Stir milk and vanilla in another medium bowl.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat granulated sugar and butter in a large bowl, scraping down sides as needed, until light and creamy, about 5 minutes. Add yolks in 2 additions, scraping down bowl after each. (Batter may separate slightly; it will come back together after dry ingredients are added.)
Reduce mixer speed to low and add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with milk mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients; beat until smooth. Divide batter between prepared pans (slightly less than 3 cups per pan); smooth top.
Bake cakes, rotating pans halfway through, until light golden brown, the centers spring back when gently pressed, and a tester inserted into the centers comes out with a few moist crumbs attached, 30–35 minutes.
Transfer cakes to wire racks; let cool in pans at least 15 minutes. Invert cakes onto racks, peel off parchment, and let cool completely.
Using a long serrated knife, trim top dome and any bumps from each cake to create a flat surface.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat butter in a large bowl until smooth, about 30 seconds. Reduce mixer speed to low and add powdered sugar, 1 cup at a time, scraping sides and bottom of bowl often. Increase mixer speed to medium and add cocoa powder and salt, then add milk and vanilla. Continue to beat until light and fluffy, 2–3 minutes. Cover and store at room temperature until ready to use.
Spread 1 Tbsp. frosting in the center of a platter. Place 1 cake layer, top side down, in the center. Evenly spread 1 1/2 cups frosting on top of cake with an offset spatula, pressing frosting outward toward edges. Carefully place second cake layer, top side down, over, gently pressing down to secure. Evenly spread 2 cups frosting over top and sides. Chill at least 15 minutes to let frosting set.
Spread remaining 2 cups frosting over top and sides, swirling decoratively, making sure to cover bottom of platter. Top with sprinkles, if desired. Chill at least 30 minutes or up to overnight to let frosting set.
Cake can be made 3 days ahead; wrap tightly in plastic and chill, or freeze up to 2 weeks. Frosting can be made 3 days ahead; cover with plastic wrap, pressing directly on surface, and chill. Bring to room temperature before using.

Vegan Fluffy Buttercream Frosting 
1/2 cup nonhydrogenated shortening
1/2 cup nonhydrogenated margarine (we use Earth Balance)
3 1/2 cups confectioners’ sugar, sifted if clumpy
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 cup plain soy milk or soy creamer

Beat the shortening and margarine together until well combined and fluffy. Add the sugar and beat for about 3 more minutes. Add the vanilla and soy milk, beat for another 5-7 minutes until fluffy.

Chocolate and Passionfruit Layer Cake 
Butter, for greasing
2 x My Favorite Chocolate Cake
150ml (2/3 cup) heavy cream
1 tbsp confectioners' sugar
10 tbsp Passionfruit Curd, with or without seeds
50g (1/4 cup/1/2 stick) butter
100g (3 1/2oz) dark chocolate, chopped
75g (2/3 cup) confectioners' sugar
1 tsp milk
Sprinkle of chocolate shavings, to decorate
2 [20cm (8-inch)] round tins

Preheat the oven to 180 degrees C/160 degrees C fan/gas 4/350 degrees F then grease two 20cm (8-inch) tins and line with baking parchment.
Make two batches of My Favorite Chocolate Cake recipe and use it to fill the tins.
Bake for 25–30 minutes until risen and a skewer inserted comes out clean. Leave to cool in the tin for ten minutes before turning out onto a cooling rack.
Whip the cream and confectioners' sugar together in a small bowl until it forms soft peaks and holds its shape when mixed. Be careful to stop when it reaches soft peaks or you might over-whip the cream, which will ruin the finished cake.
Spread the whipped cream all over the top of one of the cake layers, then cover with spoonfuls of passionfruit curd. Carefully sandwich the second layer on top of the first.
To make the icing, melt the butter and chocolate together in a microwave or in a heatproof bowl over a pan of simmering water. Remove from the heat and mix in the confectioners' sugar and the milk, then use a palette knife to spread it over the top of the cake. Sprinkle over chocolate shavings before serving. Keep any leftover cake in the fridge, where it will keep well for 2–3 days.

Toasted Marshmallow Cupcakes 
60g (about 2 oz) digestive biscuits
1 x My Favorite Vanilla Cupcakes recipe
100g (3.5 oz) dark chocolate (70–80% cocoa solids)
1 tsp butter
50ml (1/4 cup) heavy cream
125g (2/3 cup) superfine sugar
75g (1/4 cup) golden syrup
2 large egg whites
1/2 tsp vanilla extract
4 squares of dark chocolate, to decorate
Electric hand-held whisk

Blitz the digestive biscuits in a food processor until they are finely ground, or put them into a sealable bag, seal the bag and crush with a rolling pin. There shouldn’t be any large pieces remaining.
Make My Favourite Vanilla Cupcakes recipe, adding the digestive biscuit crumbs with the flour in step 1.
To make the filling, finely chop the chocolate and put it into a small bowl. Heat the butter and cream in a saucepan until steaming hot but not boiling, then pour over the chocolate. Remove from the heat and leave to stand for a minute before stirring to form a smooth ganache. If any lumps of chocolate remain, put the bowl into the microwave for ten seconds then stir; repeat until the lumps are gone. Chill in the fridge for 30 minutes or so, until it is firm and scoopable.
To make the marshmallow topping, put the sugar, golden syrup and 2 tablespoons of water into a saucepan and cook over a medium-high heat without stirring until the mixture reaches the soft-ball stage (244 degrees F/118 degrees C on a candy thermometer). If you don't have a thermometer, the mixture is ready when the bubbles start to stick together in the pan and it drips off a spoon in a steady stream. Remove from the heat.
Put the egg whites into a clean, grease-free bowl and whisk with an electric hand-held whisk until soft peaks form. With the whisk on low, carefully pour the hot sugar onto the egg whites, whisking all the time. When all the sugar has been added, increase the speed to high and whip until the sides of the bowl feel only slightly warm and the mixture is thick and glossy. Add the vanilla extract at the end. This icing is easiest to pipe when it is warm, so transfer immediately to a piping bag fitted with a large circular nozzle or with the tip cut off.
To assemble, use a sharp knife or specialist cupcake corer to make a circular incision in the center of each cupcake, remove the center and fill each one with a teaspoon of the chocolate filling.
Pipe a large mound of marshmallow topping on the top of each cupcake, covering the chocolate filling. Use a blowtorch, if you have one, to lightly brown each one, avoiding the paper case as this will burn. You could use the broiler to brown the marshmallow topping, but watch carefully because it is more difficult to control the color and prevent it burning.
To finish, chop the chocolate squares finely and sprinkle over the top of the marshmallow.

My Favorite Chocolate Cake 
Butter, for greasing
125g (1 cup) plain flour
225g (about 1 cup) superfine sugar
50g (1/2 cup) cocoa powder
1 tsp baking soda
1/4 tsp salt
125ml (1/2 cup) buttermilk (cultured), or 110ml (1/2 cup) milk plus 1 1/2 tsp lemon juice
60g (4 1/4 tbsp) butter, melted
1 egg
125ml (1/2 cup) coffee (or water)
A 20cm (8-inch) tin

Preheat the oven to 180 degrees C/160 degrees C fan/gas 4/350 degrees F then grease a cake tin and line it with baking parchment. Put the plain flour, sugar, cocoa powder, baking soda and salt into a large bowl. Whisk to combine.
If you don’t have buttermilk, pour the milk into a large jug and add the lemon juice. Leave to stand for five minutes until thickened.
Whisk the buttermilk/acidified milk into the melted butter and egg followed by the coffee or water.
Pour the wet mixture into the dry ingredients, whisking until a smooth batter has formed. It will be very runny, and if you are making more than one layer, the best way to divide it between the tins is to transfer the batter to a large jug. You can then use either the markings on the jug to measure the amount going into each tin, or put a tin on the scales and measure by weight. It is important to do this so that the layers are the same height and cook at the same rate.
Bake for 25–30 minutes until risen and a skewer inserted comes out clean. Leave to cool in the tin for ten minutes before turning out onto a cooling rack.

Gingerbread Cupcakes with Lemony Frosting 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
3 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1/3 cup light molasses
1/2 cup maple syrup
1/4 cup soy milk
2 tablespoons soy yogurt
1 1/2 teaspoons finely grated lemon zest
1/4 cup finely chopped crystallized ginger
1/4 cup nonhydrogenated margarine, softened
1/4 vegan cream cheese, softened
2 cups confectioners’ sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon of finely grated lemon zest

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line a muffin pan with paper cupcake liners.
Sift the flour, baking powder, baking soda, ginger, cinnamon, cloves, and salt into a bowl and mix.
Whisk the oil, molasses, maple syrup, soy milk, yogurt, and lemon zest in a separate large bowl. Add the flour mixture to the wet ingredients and mix just until smooth. Fold in the chopped crystallized ginger.
Fill cupcake liners two-thirds full. Bake for 19 to 22 minutes, until a knife or toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Transfer to a cooling rack and let cool completely before frosting.
Cream together margarine and cream cheese until just combined. Use a handheld mixer to whip while adding the confectioners’ sugar in 1/2 cup batches. Mix until smooth and creamy, then in mix in the vanilla. Add the lemon zest. Keep tightly covered and refrigerated until ready to use.

Chocolate Ice Cream Cookie Sandwiches 
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder, sifted
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup (packed) light brown sugar
3/4 cup granulated sugar
2 large eggs, room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 pints ice cream (any flavor)
2 pints ice cream (any other flavor)
A ruler

Whisk cocoa powder, salt, baking powder, and 2 1/2 cups flour in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Reduce mixer speed to medium and add eggs and vanilla; beat until very fluffy, about 30 seconds. Reduce speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients, beating just until combined (use a large spatula to incorporate any dry ingredients at the bottom of the bowl). Divide dough in half and wrap each in plastic, pressing down to form into 1/2”-thick disks. Chill until firm, at least 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Let 1 disk of dough sit at room temperature until softened slightly, about 5 minutes. Roll out on a lightly floured piece of parchment paper into a large 1/8 inch-thick rectangle (about 16x12 inch), dusting with more flour as needed. Use a knife and a ruler (precision is key) to cut into 4x1 1/2 inch rectangles, then use a thin metal spatula to transfer rectangles to a parchment-lined baking sheet, spacing 1 inch apart. (If at any point the dough becomes too soft and sticky, slide dough with parchment onto a baking sheet and chill until firm.)
Chill dough on baking sheet while you repeat the process with the second disk of dough. You should end up with 30 cookies total. Save scraps for another use or discard. Prick cookies in several places with a fork. Bake, rotating baking sheets front to back and top to bottom halfway through, until edges are firm, 12–15 minutes. Let cool on baking sheets. Turn half of cookies over.
Line a 13x9” baking pan, preferably straight sided, with 2 layers of plastic wrap, leaving several inches of overhang on all sides; place in freezer. Remove both pints of first ice cream flavor from containers (just peel away container if it’s paper, or use a rubber spatula to help slide ice cream out intact if container is plastic). Cut ice cream into 2” pieces and place in a large bowl. Let sit until slightly softened, about 5 minutes, then stir with a wooden spoon or a large rubber spatula until the consistency of thick cake batter. Scrape ice cream into chilled pan and smooth into an even layer with a small off-set spatula. Freeze uncovered until firm, 15–20 minutes.
Repeat softening process with both pints of second flavor.
Scrape second flavor over first layer and smooth out, spreading ice cream all the way to the edges and making top as level as possible. Cover with plastic wrap and freeze until ice cream is hard, at least 8 hours.
Remove ice cream from freezer, unwrap, and invert onto a cutting board; remove pan and peel off plastic. Trim sides of ice cream block to make a neat, straight-edged rectangle measuring 12x7 1/2” (yep, there’s that ruler again). Working quickly so ice cream doesn’t melt, cut block lengthwise into 5 equal rows and then crosswise into thirds so you have 15 pieces measuring about 4x1 1/2” Working with 1 brick of ice cream at a time, use a thin metal spatula to place on a flat-side-up cookie and top with a right-side up cookie. Transfer sandwiches to a rimmed baking sheet set in the freezer as you work. Freeze sandwiches until ice cream is hard, about 2 hours. Cover tray with plastic wrap and freeze at least another 8 hours to let cookies soften.
Dough can be made 2 days ahead; keep chilled. Cookies can be baked 1 week ahead; transfer to a resealable plastic bag and freeze. Layered ice cream can be made 1 week ahead; keep frozen in pan. Sandwiches can be assembled 5 days ahead; keep frozen.

Ice Cream With Saffron Oil And Sesame Wafer 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon honey
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/3 cup black and/or white sesame seeds
1 big pinch of saffron threads
1/4 cup olive oil
2 pints vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Melt butter in a small saucepan over medium heat. Remove from heat and mix in sugar, honey, and salt, then flour. Add sesame seeds.
Transfer dough to a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet and flatten with a spoon or offset spatula until dough is no more than 1/4 inch thick. Bake until wafer is golden brown and smells like caramel, 9–11 minutes. Let cool on baking sheet.
Wafer can be made 3 days ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.
Place saffron in a small bowl and pour in 1 tsp. boiling water. Let sit until saffron is hydrated and releases its color, 10–12 minutes. Stir in oil.
Break wafer into large pieces. Scoop ice cream into bowls; drizzle with saffron oil and top with wafer.

Pound Cake with Blueberries and Lavender Syrup 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 large eggs, at room temperature for 30 minutes
1 teaspoon finely grated fresh lemon zest
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup whole milk, at room temperature
3/4 cup water
1/2 cup sugar
4 teaspoons dried edible lavender flowers or 2 tablespoons fresh edible lavender flowers
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
10 oz blueberries (1 pt)
9x5x3-inch metal loaf pan

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter and flour loaf pan, knocking out excess flour.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt. Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes in a stand mixer or 5 with a handheld. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in zest and vanilla. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture and milk alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour and mixing until just incorporated.
Spoon batter into loaf pan and bake until golden and a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out with crumbs adhering, 1 to 1 1/4 hours. Cool cake in pan on a rack 30 minutes, then invert onto rack and cool completely.
Bring water and sugar to a boil in a small saucepan, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Remove from heat and stir in lavender, then steep 30 minutes for dried lavender or 40 minutes for fresh. Pour syrup through a fine-mesh sieve into a bowl, discarding lavender. Stir in lemon juice and blueberries.
Spoon berries and syrup over slices of cake just before serving.

Sheet-Pan Brownie Thins 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, plus more for pan
1 1/4 cups sugar
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
2 cold large eggs
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1 cup finely chopped walnuts, pecans, or mini chocolate chips

Position a rack in center of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. Very generously butter an 18x13 inch rimmed baking sheet (do not line with parchment).
Melt remaining 1/2 cup butter in a small heatproof bowl in the microwave or set over a pot of barely simmering water. Mix sugar, cocoa powder, vanilla, and salt in a medium bowl. Pour butter over and stir until smooth. Add eggs one at a time, stirring vigorously with a wooden spoon or rubber spatula after each addition, until batter is thick, shiny, and smooth. Stir in flour until well incorporated, then beat vigorously for 30–40 strokes. Stir in nuts or chocolate chips.
Using a spatula, spread batter into a thin, even layer to edges and into corners of prepared sheet (batter will seem scant but brownies will rise to about 1/4 inch thick).
Bake brownies until firm to the touch and a tester inserted into the center comes out with moist crumbs (not runny batter) attached, 15–18 minutes.
Transfer to a wire rack and let cool completely. Cut into 36 pieces and serve.
Brownies can be made 5 days ahead. Store in an airtight container at room temperature, or freeze up to 6 months.

Edible Cookie Dough with Variations 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature, cubed
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
2 tablespoons milk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup chocolate chips
8 cream-filled chocolate sandwich cookies, such as Oreos
2 teaspoons vegetable oil
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 cup mini marshmallows
1/3 cup almonds, coarsely chopped
1/3 cup chocolate chips
2 teaspoons vegetable oil
1/ 2 cup quick-cooking oats
1/3 cup walnuts, coarsely chopped
1/2 cup raisins
2 teaspoons vegetable oil
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/3 cup smooth peanut butter
1/3 mini peanut butter cups, cut into 1/8ths
1/4 cup hard shell peanut butter chocolate candies, such as Reese's Pieces

Preheat oven to 350˚F. Spread flour on a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet and bake 10 minutes. Let cool slightly (flour should still be warm to the touch), about 3 minutes.
Meanwhile, using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar, and salt in a large bowl until light and fluffy, 2–3 minutes. Reduce mixer speed to low and beat in milk and vanilla. Add warm flour and beat on low speed until incorporated. Increase speed to medium-high and continue to beat until dough separates, then comes back together, about 30 seconds. Chill 10 minutes.
Mix base cookie dough and chocolate chips with a spatula in a large bowl. Using a small ice cream scoop or tablespoon, divide dough into balls and transfer to a rimmed baking sheet. Chill at least 30 minutes.
Crush cookies in a plastic bag until finely crushed. Mix base cookie dough, cookie crumbles, and oil with a spatula or your hands in a large bowl. Using a small ice cream scoop or tablespoon, divide dough into balls and transfer to a rimmed baking sheet. Chill at least 15 minutes.
Sift cocoa powder over base cookie dough. Add marshmallows, almonds, chocolate chips, and oil and mix with a spatula or your hands until incorporated. Using a small ice cream scoop or tablespoon, divide dough into balls and transfer to a rimmed baking sheet. Chill at least 15 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350˚F. Spread oats and walnuts on a rimmed baking sheet and bake until walnuts are lightly toasted, about 10 minutes. Let cool at least 15 minutes.
Mix base cookie dough, oats, walnuts, raisins, oil, and cinnamon with a spatula or your hands in a large bowl. Using a small ice cream scoop or tablespoon, divide dough into balls and transfer to a rimmed baking sheet. Chill at least 15 minutes.
Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat base cookie dough and peanut butter in a large bowl until smooth. Add peanut butter cups and candies and fold with a spatula. Using a small ice cream scoop or tablespoon, divide dough into balls and transfer to a rimmed baking sheet. Chill at least 15 minutes.
Cookie dough made 5 days ahead. Store in an airtight container and chill, or freeze up to 1 month.

Jam Bars 
1/2 cup/110g unsalted butter or coconut oil, at room temperature
1/3 cup/85g almond butter
2 Tbsp brown rice syrup or maple syrup
1 1/2 cups/150g rolled oats
1 cup/120g almond flour
1 cup/120g oat flour
6 Tbsp/90g granulated sugar
1 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp sea salt, plus one pinch
1/2 tsp vanilla extract
1/2 tsp almond extract
1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
1 cup plus 2 Tbsp/340g jam
1 tsp lemon juice
Pinch of sea salt

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F/180 degrees C. Line a 9 by 13-inch/23 by 33cm baking pan with parchment paper. Combine the butter or coconut oil, almond butter, and brown rice syrup or maple syrup in a large bowl and, using a wooden spoon, mix well.
Add the rolled oats, almond flour, oat flour, sugar, baking powder, salt, vanilla and almond extracts, and cinnamon to the butter mixture and stir until a soft dough forms. Divide the dough into thirds. Press two-thirds of the dough into the bottom of the prepared pan and reserve the remaining one-third for the topping.
Stir together the jam, lemon juice, and salt and then spread the mixture evenly over the bottom crust.
Crumble the remaining one-third dough over the jam filling.
Bake the jam bars until golden brown around the edges, about 35 minutes. Let the pastry cool completely in the pan on a wire rack before cutting into bars.
The jam bars will keep, well wrapped, at room temperature for up to 4 days.
Jam Bars with Chopped Nuts: If you’re after textural contrast, chopped nuts added to the top layer give these jam bars extra crunch. After separating the dough, set aside the slightly larger portion to be used for the bottom. Add 1/2 cup/40g sliced almonds or 1/2 cup/50g chopped walnuts to the other third, which will be used for the crumble on top.

Cinnamon–Chocolate Chunk Skillet Cookie 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon espresso powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
10 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup (packed) light brown sugar
8 ounces high-quality milk chocolate, chopped
A heavy (preferably cast-iron) 12-inch skillet

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Whisk flour, cinnamon, baking powder, espresso powder, baking soda, and salt in a medium bowl. Lightly beat eggs and vanilla in a small bowl.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat butter, granulated sugar, and brown sugar in a large bowl until light and fluffy, 3–4 minutes. Add egg mixture and beat, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl, until mixture is pale and fluffy, 3–4 minutes. Reduce mixer speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients, beating until just incorporated. Fold in chocolate with a spatula.
Press dough evenly into 12 inch skillet. Bake cookie until golden brown around the edges and center is still soft, 20–25 minutes. Let cookie cool in skillet before slicing.
Cookie can be made 3 days ahead; cover and store at room temperature.

Double Chocolate Cupcakes With Salted Chia Pudding Frosting 
1 (14-ounce) can full-fat coconut milk
5 Medjool dates, pitted and chopped
1/4–1/2 teaspoon of sea salt
5 tablespoons chia seeds
1 cup unsweetened almond milk
1 tablespoon apple cider vinegar
1 tablespoon flax meal
3 tablespoons water
1 cup chickpea (garbanzo bean) flour
1/2 cup brown rice flour
1/4 cup cocoa powder
1 teaspoon aluminum-free baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon sea salt
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 cup real maple syrup
1/4 cup coconut oil, melted
1 cup dairy-free chocolate chips (I like Enjoy Life), plus more for garnish

Combine the coconut milk, dates, and salt in a blender and blend until the mixture is smooth. This might take a few minutes. If end up with small bits of dates, that's OK. But you don't want to see chunks or even white slivers of the coconut milk. The color should be a very light tan. Taste, and if you want to add more salt, do it now and then blend for a few more seconds (I really like the saltiness a teaspoon brings). Pour the mixture into a medium jar or container with a lid. Stir in the chia seeds. Put the frosting in the fridge, covered, for at least 6 hours (overnight is best).
Preheat the oven to 350ºF. Line a standard cupcake pan with 12 paper liners.
In a small bowl, combine the almond milk and apple cider vinegar. In another small bowl, make a flax egg: Mix the flax meal and water together. Let both the almond milk mixture and the flax egg rest for at least 10 minutes.
In a large bowl, whisk together the flours, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda, and salt.
Combine the vanilla, maple syrup, flax egg, and almond milk mixture in a bowl. Add the wet ingredients into the dry and stir to combine. Do not overstir. Pour in the coconut oil and chocolate chips and give it a few more stirs, until just combined.
Fill each cupcake liner with 1/4 cup of the batter. Bake for 18 to 20 minutes or until a fork or toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean.
Let your cupcakes cool on a wire rack if you have one. When they're completely cool, top them with the frosting. Sprinkle a few more chocolate chips on top.

Classic Snickerdoodle Cookies 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/2 cup (1 stick) cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/2 inch pieces
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup sugar, divided
1 large egg, room temperature
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon

Whisk flour, baking soda, and cream of tartar in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat butter in a large bowl until pale yellow, 2–3 minutes. Scrape down sides, add salt and 3/4 cup sugar, and continue to beat until light and fluffy, 3–4 minutes more. Scrape down sides, add egg, and blend until just incorporated. Reduce mixer speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients, beating until just incorporated.
Gather dough into a ball, wrap ball in plastic wrap, and chill until firm, about 30 minutes.
Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 375 degrees F. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Mix cinnamon and remaining 1/4 cup sugar in a small bowl. Using your hands, roll tablespoonfuls of dough into balls. Roll balls in cinnamon sugar, then transfer to prepared sheets, spacing about 2 inch apart.
Bake cookies, rotating sheets halfway through, until just golden brown around the edges, 8–10 minutes (cookies will firm up as they cool). Let cookies cool on sheets a few minutes, then transfer to wire racks and let cool completely.

Double-Chocolate Skillet Brownie 
10 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) butter
1 1/2 cups sugar
4 large free-range eggs
2 tablespoons pure maple syrup
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup pecan halves, chopped
1/2 cup milk chocolate chips
1 cup vanilla ice cream
2 tablespoons pecan halves, chopped
Fresh mint leaves, for garnish

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a 10-inch cast-iron pan or other oven-safe skillet.
Pour 1 inch of water into a saucepan and bring to a simmer. Set a large heatproof bowl on top to create a double boiler (do not let the bottom of the bowl touch the water). Put the bittersweet chocolate and butter in the bowl and gently melt. Stir until smooth.
Remove from the heat and whisk in the sugar. Whisk in the eggs, one at a time, until combined and smooth. Carry on whisking in the maple syrup, vanilla, salt, baking powder, and cocoa powder until incorporated. Fold in the flour, pecans, and chocolate chips until the batter is smooth.
Pour the batter into the prepared pan and bake for 35 to 40 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Let the brownie cool slightly in the pan for about 10 minutes, then serve with the ice cream, crushed pecans, and fresh mint. Delicious!

Hungarian Golden Pull-Apart Cake with Walnuts and Apricot Jam (Aranygaluska) 
1 tablespoon active dry yeast
1 cup (235 ml) warm milk
1/2 cup (100 grams) sugar, plus 2 tablespoons
4 large eggs
Zest of 1 orange
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup plus 4 tablespoons (2 1/2 sticks/282 grams) unsalted butter, at room temperature, divided
4 1/2 cups (600 grams) unbleached all-purpose flour (about)
1 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups (180 grams) ground walnuts
6 tablespoons (83 grams) brown sugar
3/4 teaspoon cinnamon
3 tablespoons cake or butter cookie crumbs
3/4 cup (150 grams) apricot or plum jam

Dissolve the yeast in the warm milk in the bowl of a standing mixer equipped with a paddle attachment. Add 1/4 cup of the sugar, the eggs, orange zest, vanilla, and 1 stick of butter. Gradually add the flour and salt, beating until mixed. Cover the bowl and leave for an hour, or until the dough has about doubled in size.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F and butter a 10-inch round pan with some of the second stick of butter.
Melt what is left of the second stick of butter plus the remaining half stick and put it in a small bowl. In a separate bowl, mix the walnuts, brown sugar, remaining white sugar, cinnamon, and the cake or cookie crumbs.
Roll the dough into a 1/2-inch-thick circle. Using a 1-inch cookie or biscuit cutter, cut circles of dough. Dip the circles first in the butter, then in the nut mixture and set in the pan, almost touching each other. After a layer is completed, spoon on dollops of jam. Make a second layer, filling in the holes with dough, then jam, continuing and rerolling until the dough is used up, ending with the walnut topping but not the jam. Bake in the oven for 35 to 40 minutes, or until golden brown and set. Leave in the pan for a few minutes, then turn onto a plate and serve warm. You can either cut the cake or pull the sections apart. Serve for a sweet breakfast treat, or as a dessert, served with good vanilla or rum raisin ice cream.

Flourless Cacao Fudge Cake 
200g (about 14 tablespoons) unsalted butter, chopped
3/4 cup (75g) raw cacao powder, plus extra for dusting
6 eggs
1 1/4 cups (220g) brown sugar
1 cup (120g) almond meal (ground almonds)

Preheat oven to 160 degrees C (320 degrees F). Lightly grease a 22cm springform cake tin and line with non-stick baking paper. Place the butter and cacao in a saucepan over low heat and stir until smooth. Place the eggs and sugar in the bowl of an electric mixer and beat until doubled in volume. Add the cacao mixture and almond meal and gently fold to combine. Pour into the tin and bake for 35–40 minutes or until just set. Allow to cool in the tin. Turn out and dust with extra cacao to serve.

Mirror Cake Glaze 
2 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon unflavored gelatin (3 packets)
1 3/4 cups sugar
1/2 cup sweetened condensed milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
2 1/2 cups white chocolate chips (about 15 ounces)
3–4 different shades of food coloring

Stir gelatin and 1/2 cup lukewarm water in a small bowl and let sit 5 minutes.
Cook sugar, condensed milk, vanilla, salt, and 3/4 cup water in a medium saucepan over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until mixture begins to bubble, about 4 minutes. Add bloomed gelatin and stir until dissolved.
Remove from heat and add chocolate chips, stirring constantly, until melted. Strain through a fine-mesh sieve into a large bowl, then divide glaze among 3 or 4 bowls. Color each with food coloring as desired. Let cool, stirring occasionally to stop a skin from forming, until glaze is just cool enough to touch (100–95 degrees F), 10–12 minutes.
Pour half of color one into a large bowl, then pour half of color two into the center, followed by half of color three and half of color four, if using. Repeat with remaining glaze to form concentric circles of different colors in bowl.
Set a chilled, smoothly frosted cake on a cake pan or overturned bowl set inside a rimmed baking sheet or large tray to catch drips. Pour colored glaze over, sweeping back and forth across cake as you pour, to form a marbled pattern. Resist the temptation to touch glaze once it’s poured; it will start to set as soon as it hits the cold cake. Let glaze drip about 10 minutes, then clean up edges with a small offset spatula or butter knife. Transfer cake to a serving platter and chill at least 30 minutes or up to 1 day.
Using a warmed sharp knife, cut cleanly through cake, wiping knife with a warm damp towel between each slice.

Babee’s Strawberry Shortbread Valentine’s Cookies 
6 cups sifted all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 cups unsalted butter
2 cups sifted confectioners’ sugar
2 large egg yolks
1/2 cup orange juice
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
6 cups strawberry preserves

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Sift together the flour and baking powder, and set aside.
In the bowl of a stand mixer or in a bowl with a handheld electric mixer, cream together the butter and sugar until light and fluffy, approximately 3 to 5 minutes.
Add the egg yolks, orange juice, and vanilla extract, and mix slowly.
Add the flour mixture to the butter mixture, and mix slowly until a dough forms.
Remove the dough from the mixer, and knead with your hands until it’s stretchy. Place the dough between two sheets of parchment paper and, using a rolling pin, roll flat.
Remove the top sheet of parchment paper and cut the dough in half. Punch out the “solid” bottom halves of the cookies on one half of the dough. Punch out the “heart window” top halves of the cookies on the other half of the dough.
Arrange cookies on a cookie sheet lined with parchment paper and bake for 8 to 10 minutes. Remove before browned, and let cool completely.
Carefully spread strawberry preserves on the solid bottom halves of the cookies, and place the heart window part of each cookie on top. Serve and enjoy!

Strawberry Shortcake Cupcakes 
2 large egg yolks
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup sifted all-purpose flour
1/4 cup cornstarch
1 cup whole milk
2 tablespoons heavy cream
1/4 teaspoon rum extract
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
Seeds from 1 vanilla bean
2 1/2 cups sifted all-purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
8 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 3/4 cups sugar
2 large eggs
2 1/4 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups whole milk
Seeds from 1 vanilla bean
1 cup fresh strawberries, diced
16 tablespoons unsalted butter
4 cups sifted confectioners’ sugar
1 teaspoon whole milk
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup diced strawberries
24 fresh strawberries, sliced

In the bowl of a stand mixer, using the paddle attachment, or in a bowl with a handheld electric mixer, mix the egg yolks and the sugar for 4 to 5 minutes.
In another large bowl, sift together the flour and the cornstarch.
Add the flour mixture to the egg mixture slowly, mixing on low speed for 1 to 2 minutes or until smooth.
In a medium saucepan, warm the milk on medium heat, just until it starts to boil.
Switch your mixer to the whisk attachment, then add the hot milk slowly to the mixer, and whisk continuously at medium speed while pouring the milk, to keep the mixture smooth, without lumps or curdles.
Add the heavy cream, rum extract, vanilla extract, and vanilla bean seeds and mix thoroughly for 2 to 3 minutes.
Then pour the mixture back into the saucepan and cook over medium heat until it boils. Note: It must be hand-whisked constantly during this time. After it reaches boiling, whisk for 2 more minutes, until it thickens.
Remove from heat. Let it come to room temperature before pouring in a bowl. Refrigerate for at least 2 hours to chill.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line two cupcake pans with twelve paper baking cups each, or grease pans with butter if not using baking cups.
Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt in a bowl, and set aside.
Place the butter in the bowl of a stand mixer or in a bowl with a handheld electric mixer. Add the sugar; beat on medium speed until well incorporated, approximately 3 to 5 minutes.
Add the eggs one at a time, mixing slowly after each addition.
Combine the vanilla extract and milk in a large liquid measuring cup. Carefully scrape the vanilla bean seeds from the milk.
Add one third of the flour mixture to the butter mixture, then gradually add one third of the milk mixture, beating slowly until well incorporated. Add another third of the flour mixture, followed by another third of the milk mixture. Stop to scrape down the bowl as needed. Add the remaining flour mixture, followed by the remaining milk mixture, and beat just until combined.
Using a spatula, gently fold into the strawberries.
Scoop batter into baking cups so that each is two-thirds full, and bake for 15 to 18 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the center of the cupcake comes our clean. Transfer the pans to a wire rack to cool completely.
Place all of the ingredients in the bowl of a stand mixer or in a bowl with a handheld electric mixer. Beat until well incorporated and the frosting is light and fluffy, approximately 3 to 4 minutes.
Once cooled, peel the wrappers off the strawberry cupcakes and slice in half length-wise. Add a tablespoon of the filling on top of the bottom half of the strawberry cupcake; add a layer of sliced strawberries; cover with the top to make a cupcake “sandwich”; then frost with a swirl and garnish with a strawberry slice.

Raspberry and Coconut Breakfast Loaf 
Coconut oil, for greasing
175g almonds or ground almonds (about 1 1/4 cups whole or 1 3/4 cups ground)
25g (about 1/4 cup) desiccated coconut, plus extra to serve
1 lemon, zested
2 tsp baking powder
3 free-range eggs
5 tbsp honey, plus extra to serve
150g raspberries (1 1/4 cups), plus extra to serve
Sea salt

Preheat the oven to 180 degrees C/350 degrees F/Gas Mark 4. Grease and line a 450g (1lb.) loaf tin. Blitz the almonds in a food processor to a flour-like consistency (if you are using ground almonds, skip this step).
In a mixing bowl, mix together the ground almonds, desiccated coconut, lemon zest and baking powder with a pinch of sea salt.
In another bowl, whisk the eggs until fully combined, then add the honey. Add the wet mixture to the dry mixture, then gently fold in the raspberries. Carefully pour the mixture into the lined tin, gently pressing in the extra raspberries. Bake in the hot oven for 50 to 60 minutes, until cooked through and a knife inserted comes out clean, covering with foil for the final 20 minutes.
Brush with honey and sprinkle with the extra desiccated coconut. Transfer to a wire rack to cool, then slice and serve.

Classic Carrot-Coconut Cake 
1 cup unsweetened shredded coconut
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1 pound carrots, peeled, coarsely grated
1 cup buttermilk, room temperature
4 large eggs, room temperature
1 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup vegetable oil
Classic Cream Cheese Frosting
1 cup unsweetened coconut flakes
2 (9 inch) round cake pans

Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Spread shredded coconut in a single layer on a rimmed baking sheet and toast until golden brown and aromatic, 3–5 minutes. Let cool 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, lightly coat cake pans with nonstick spray. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper; lightly coat parchment with nonstick spray.
Whisk toasted coconut, flour, baking powder, salt, baking soda, cinnamon, and ginger in a medium bowl. Combine carrots and buttermilk in another medium bowl.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat eggs, granulated sugar, brown sugar, and vanilla in a large bowl until pale and thick, about 4 minutes. Reduce speed to medium-low and gradually stream in oil. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with carrot mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients; beat until smooth. Divide batter between prepared pans; smooth top.
Bake cakes, rotating pans halfway through, until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 40–45 minutes. Transfer pans to a wire rack and let cakes cool 10 minutes. Run a knife around sides of cakes and invert onto wire rack; remove parchment. Let cool completely.
Spread 1 Tbsp. frosting in the center of a platter. Place 1 cake, domed side down, on platter. Spread 1 1/4 cups frosting evenly over top. Place remaining cake, domed side down, on top. Spread top and sides with 2 cups frosting. Chill 30 minutes to let frosting set.
Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake, swirling top decoratively. Press coconut flakes into frosting on sides of cake. Chill at least 30 minutes or up to overnight to let frosting set.
Cake can be made 3 days ahead; wrap tightly in plastic and chill, or freeze up to 2 weeks.

Easter Egg Cake with Strawberry Frosting 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, cubed, room temperature, plus more for pans
2 1/4 cups cake flour, plus more for pans
5 large egg whites
1 cup milk
1/4 cup malted milk powder
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups sliced strawberries (about 8 strawberries)
Pinch of kosher salt
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar, divided
3 tablespoons malted milk powder
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 large egg whites
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes, softened
2–3 drops red food coloring (optional)
1 (3-ounce) bar white chocolate
2 cups thinly sliced strawberries (about 16 strawberries)
Pastel-colored candy-coated chocolate eggs
Two (8-inch) round cake pans

Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour cake pans. Mix egg whites, milk, malted milk powder, and vanilla in a medium bowl. Whisk baking powder, salt, and remaining 2 1/4 cups flour in another medium bowl.
Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat sugar and remaining 3/4 cup butter in a large bowl until light and fluffy, 3–4 minutes. Reduce mixer speed to low. Add milk mixture in 3 additions, alternating with dry ingredients in 2 additions, beginning and ending with milk mixture.
Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 45–50 minutes. Let cool in pans 5 minutes. Run a sharp knife around edges of cakes and invert on a wire rack. Let cool completely before frosting, at least 3 hours.
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Toss strawberries, salt, 2 Tbsp. sugar, and 2 tsp. water in a small baking dish. Bake until sugar is dissolved and strawberries are bubbling and roasted, 12–15 minutes. Let cool 10 minutes.
Transfer to a blender and pulse until smooth. Strain through a fine-mesh sieve into a small bowl (you should have about 1/2 cup). Whisk in malted milk powder and vanilla until smooth.
Lightly whisk egg whites and remaining 1 cup sugar in a medium heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water until hot to the touch or a candy thermometer registers 140 degrees F.
Pour hot egg white mixture into bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment. Beat on medium-high speed until very fluffy, 5–7 minutes. Fit stand mixer with paddle attachment. Reduce mixer speed to medium-low and beat, adding butter 1 cube at a time, until mixture is smooth and glossy. Continue to beat until mixture begins to look light and fluffy.
Add 1/2 cup strawberry purée and food coloring, if using, and stir to combine.
Using a sharp knife, cut chocolate into thin shards, then chill until ready to use.
Place 1 cake layer on a cake stand or platter. Using an offset spatula, spread 1/2 cup frosting evenly over top. Arrange an even layer of sliced strawberries on top, pressing to adhere. Place remaining cake, domed side down, on top. Spread top and sides with 1 1/2 cups frosting; chill 10 minutes.
Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake, smoothing evenly. Chill at least 15 minutes or up to overnight to let frosting set.
Arrange white chocolate shards in a round, nest-like shape on top of cake. Place chocolate eggs in center of nest. Slice and serve.
Cake can be made 3 days ahead; wrap tightly in plastic and chill, or freeze up to 2 weeks.

St. Patrick's Day Cupcakes with White Chocolate and Pistachios 
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
3/4 cup whole milk
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs, room temperature
Green, blue, and yellow food coloring
1 cup white chocolate chips
3/4 cup raw pistachios, finely chopped
4 large egg whites, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 pound (4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Green, blue, and yellow food coloring
Gold luster dust and/or decorative sprinkles (optional)
A pastry bag or resealable plastic bag; a large round pastry tip

Position racks in top and bottom thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 standard 12-cup muffin tins with liners. Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl. Stir milk and vanilla in a small bowl or measuring cup.
Cream sugar and butter in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment at medium speed, scraping down sides, until pale and fluffy, 3–4 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend after each addition.
Reduce mixer speed to low and beat in dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with milk mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Beat in food coloring until you reach desired green color. Fold in chocolate chips and pistachios.
Divide batter among muffin cups. Bake cupcakes, rotating baking sheets front to back and top to bottom halfway through, until tops are firm and lightly browned and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 13–16 minutes. Transfer pans to wire racks and let cool.
Lightly whisk egg whites and sugar in a medium bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water until hot to the touch or a candy thermometer registers 140 degrees F.
Pour hot egg whites mixture into stand mixer bowl and whip with the whisk attachment on medium-high speed until doubled in volume and stiff peaks form. Meanwhile, cut butter into 2 inch pieces. (The butter should be slightly moist on the outside but cold inside.)
Fit stand mixer with paddle attachment. Add half of butter to bowl. Pulsate (turn on and off) mixer several times until meringue covers butter completely. Add remaining butter and pulsate mixer several more times. Beat on lowest speed, then slowly increase speed every 10 seconds to medium-high. Continue to beat until mixture begins to look light and fluffy. Stop mixer, scrape bowl, then reduce speed to low. Add vanilla and continue to beat on low speed 45 seconds. Increase speed to medium-high and beat until smooth, 45–60 seconds. Add food coloring and mix until you reach desired color.
Transfer buttercream to pastry bag fitted with round tip. (Alternatively, use a large resealable plastic bag and snip off 1 corner.) Frost each cupcake with a swirl, then dust with gold luster dust, if using. Top with sprinkles, if using.
Unfrosted cupcakes can be made 3 days ahead; cover tightly and store at room temperature. Frosted cupcakes can be made 3 days ahead; cover tightly and chill.

Madeleines with Lavender Honey 
9 tablespoons (1 stick plus 1 tablespoon) unsalted butter
4 large egg whites, room temperature
1 1/3 cups powdered sugar
6 tablespoons all purpose flour
1/4 cup almond flour or almond meal
1 tablespoon lavender honey
Madeleine pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter each madeleine mold in pan and dust with flour, tapping out excess. Melt 9 tablespoons unsalted butter in medium skillet over medium heat. Cook until butter turns golden brown, stirring often, 3 to 4 minutes. Set browned butter aside.
Using electric mixer, beat egg whites, sugar, all purpose flour, and almond flour in medium bowl until mixture is blended and smooth. Place honey in small microwave-safe bowl. Heat just to warm, 5 to 10 seconds. Beat honey into batter. Add browned butter; beat to blend. Spoon 1 tablespoon batter into each prepared madeleine mold.
Bake madeleines until tops are just dry and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 12 minutes. Cool 5 minutes. Gently tap madeleines out of molds. Place on rack to cool slightly.
To prepare additional madeleines, wash pan and cool completely. Butter and flour molds and fill as directed above. Serve madeleines warm.

Homemade Sprinkles 
1/2 cup freeze-dried raspberries
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon dried or powdered egg whites
Pinch of kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon lemon extract

Pulse raspberries in a food processor until finely ground (you should have a scant 1/4 cup). Sift powdered sugar and raspberry powder through a very fine-mesh sieve into a medium bowl; discard raspberry seeds.
Whisk dried egg whites and 1 Tbsp. warm water in a small bowl until frothy. Whisk in salt.
Pour egg white mixture into raspberry mixture and stir with a spatula until thick but fully incorporated. Stir in lemon extract. Mixture should be smooth, satiny, and very thick; if it seems too stiff to stir, add 1/2 tsp. water.
Fit a pastry bag with a #2 round icing tip, if using. Transfer mixture to pastry bag or plastic bag (cut off 1 corner before piping to make a very small opening). Pipe long, straight lines, small hearts, dots, letters, or any other favorite shape onto a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet.
Let sit at room temperature until hardened, at least 8 hours or up to 1 day (to speed up drying, you can also bake sprinkles in a 150 degrees F oven 2–2 1/2 hours). Break sprinkles piped into lines into various lengths, if desired.
Sprinkles can be made 1 week ahead; store in an airtight container at room temperature.

BA's Best Chocolate Macaroon Cake 
1 cup virgin coconut oil, melted, cooled, plus more for pan
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder, plus more for pan
1 cup skin-on almonds
8 ounces semisweet or bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup unsweetened shredded coconut
6 large eggs, room temperature
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup (packed) light brown sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
4 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon light agave nectar or pure maple syrup
Pinch of kosher salt
1/2 cup unsweetened coconut milk (from a very well shaken 13.5-ounce can)
2 tablespoons unsweetened coconut flakes
1 tablespoon sliced almonds
1 teaspoon granulated sugar

Place a rack in middle of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly brush a 10 inch-diameter cake pan with oil. Line the bottom with a round of parchment; brush parchment with oil. Dust sides of pan with cocoa powder; tap out excess. Toast almonds on a rimmed baking sheet until fragrant and slightly darkened, 8–10 minutes. Let cool. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Meanwhile, heat chocolate and 1 cup oil in a medium heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water (don’t let bowl touch the water), stirring often, until mixture is smooth. Remove from heat.
Pulse almonds, salt, and 1/4 cup cocoa in food processor until nuts are finely ground. Add shredded coconut and pulse a couple of times to combine.
Beat eggs on medium speed in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment until no longer streaky, about 20 seconds. Add both sugars and vanilla, increase speed to high, and beat until mixture is pale, thick, and starts to hold the marks of the whisk, about 2 minutes (it should fall off the whisk and immediately sink back into itself). Switch to the paddle attachment and with mixer on low speed, gradually add chocolate mixture. Beat to incorporate, then mix in almond mixture. Fold batter several times with a rubber spatula, making sure to scrape the bottom and sides. Scrape batter into prepared pan; smooth top.
Bake cake until firm to the touch and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean but greasy, 35–45 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool 15–20 minutes in pan (cake might fall slightly in the center; that’s okay). Run a paring knife or small offset spatula around edges of cake; invert onto rack. Carefully peel away parchment; let cool completely.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine chocolate, 1 Tbsp. agave nectar, and salt in a medium bowl. Bring coconut milk to a simmer in a small saucepan over low; pour over chocolate mixture. Let sit until chocolate is melted, about 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, toss coconut flakes, almonds, sugar, and remaining 1 tsp. agave nectar on a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet and toast until golden, about 4 minutes. Let almond-coconut mixture cool, then break into smaller clusters.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat chocolate mixture until it has lost its sheen and is thick enough to hold very soft peaks, 6–8 minutes (ganache won’t be quite as thick as frosting but close).
Working quickly before ganache starts to set, scrape on top of cake and spread to edges with a small offset spatula or knife. Top with almond-coconut clusters.
Cake can be baked and cooled 1 day ahead. Store tightly covered at room temperature until ready to serve.

Ginger and Almond Bars 
3 tablespoons (45 g) unsalted butter
1 3/4 cups (165 g) almond meal (also called almond flour or almond powder)
2 tablespoons peeled and grated fresh ginger
3 tablespoons mild honey, such as clover
1 large egg, free-range and organic, lightly beaten
1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
4 tablespoons (60 g) unsalted butter
1 cup (80 g) sliced almonds
1/3 cup (45 g) minced candied ginger
1/3 cup (80 ml) mild honey, such as clover
1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
A 9-1/2-inch (24 cm) square baking pan; baking parchment; a 2-quart (2 l) saucepan; a baking rack.

Center a rack in the oven. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C). Line the pan with baking parchment, letting the parchment hang over the sides. (This will make it easier to remove the dessert once baked.)
In the saucepan, melt the butter. Add the almond meal, fresh ginger, honey, egg, salt, and vanilla. Stir until well combined. The mixture should be thick and sticky.
Turn the mixture out into the prepared pan. To help make a level and even base, place a piece of plastic wrap on top of the base. Using a flat-bottomed glass (or your fingers), smooth out the base by pressing gently to evenly cover the bottom of the pan. Remove and discard the plastic wrap. Bake until the base is slightly firm, 12 to 15 minutes.
In the same saucepan, melt the butter over low heat. Add the almonds, candied ginger, honey, salt, and vanilla. Stir just until the ingredients are incorporated.
When the base is baked, spread the topping evenly over the base and bake until the topping is dark and sizzling, 12 to 15 minutes. Do not underbake.
Transfer the pan to the baking rack to cool. When the dessert is completely cool, remove it from the pan using the overhanging parchment as handles and cut it into 16 even squares.
Store in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 1 week.
Chestnut Honey Squares: For the base, replace 1 cup (90g) almond meal with 3/4 cup (120 g) unbleached, all-purpose flour and use a strong honey, such as chestnut, in place of the mild honey. For the topping, replace the candied ginger with organic candied orange or lemon peel, cut into tiny cubes.

Chocolate, Pistachio, and Tahini Truffles 
1 cup tahini
6 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons honey
2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon finely grated orange zest
1 cup shelled roasted, salted pistachios
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons toasted white sesame seeds

Heat tahini, chocolate, honey, salt, cinnamon, and orange zest in a medium heatproof bowl set over a medium saucepan of barely simmering water (bottom of bowl should not touch water), stirring occasionally, or microwave in short bursts, stirring in between bursts, until melted and smooth.
Carefully pour tahini mixture into a glass or metal tall-sided baking pan (an 8x8 inch pan works well). Chill until truffle base is firm, 60–70 minutes.
Meanwhile, finely chop pistachios by hand or with a food processor. Mix pistachios and sesame seeds in a medium bowl.
Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment or wax paper. Scoop tahini mixture by the tablespoonful and quickly roll into 1 inch balls between the palms of your hands. Toss in pistachio-sesame mixture until coated. Using a spoon, gently transfer to prepared sheet.
Truffles can be made 5 days ahead; cover and chill. Let sit at room temperature 15 minutes before serving.

Grapefruit-Vanilla Shortbread 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature, cut into pieces, plus more for pan
1 tablespoon finely grated grapefruit zest
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup plus 1 cup powdered sugar
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt, plus more
2 tablespoons fresh grapefruit juice
Himalayan pink salt, dried hibiscus flowers, red sprinkles or sanding sugar, dried rose petals, and/or cracked pink peppercorns (for serving; optional)
A 9-inch springform pan

Lightly butter pan. Pulse grapefruit zest, vanilla extract, 1/2 cup butter, and 1/3 cup powdered sugar in a food processor until smooth and homogenous. Add flour and 1/2 tsp. kosher salt; pulse just to combine. Press dough evenly into prepared pan, smoothing top with a flat-bottomed glass or measuring cup. Chill until firm, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Prick shortbread all over with a fork 1 inch–2 inch apart, and bake until edges are golden and center is pale but firm to the touch, 15–18 minutes.
Remove band from pan and immediately cut shortbread into 16 wedges. Let cool.
Whisk grapefruit juice, a pinch of kosher salt, and remaining 1 cup powdered sugar in a small bowl until smooth. Spread a thin layer of icing over shortbreads with a small offset spatula, leaving a thin border of crust exposed. Top as desired. Let sit 10–15 minutes to allow glaze to set. Retrace cut marks.
Dough can be pressed into pan 1 day ahead. Cover and chill.

Chocolate-Covered Marshmallow Cookies 
3/4 cup almond flour or meal
2/3 cup rice flour
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1/3 cup powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 large egg yolk
1 (1.2-ounce) bag freeze-dried strawberries
1 envelope unflavored powdered gelatin (about 2 1/2 teaspoons)
2 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
2 teaspoon plus 1/2 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoon light corn syrup
12 ounces semisweet or bittersweet chocolate, chopped
2 tablespoon virgin coconut oil
Pearl sugar and/or red sanding sugar (for serving; optional)
Red luster dust (for serving; optional)
A 1–1 1/4-inch–diameter cookie cutter; candy thermometer

Whisk almond flour and rice flour in a medium bowl. In the bowl of a stand mixer, on medium speed, beat butter, granulated sugar, powdered sugar, and salt until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Reduce speed to low and beat in egg yolk, then dry ingredients.
Roll out dough between 2 sheets of parchment paper to 1/4 inch thick. Using parchment, slide dough onto a baking sheet and chill until firm, 30–40 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Peel away top layer of parchment paper from dough and punch out rounds with cutter; transfer cookies to another parchment-lined large baking sheet, spacing at least 1 inch apart. (You should have 36 cookies; if desired, gather scraps and save for another use.)
Bake cookies until edges are golden but centers are still pale, 10–12 minutes. Let cool on baking sheets.
Line another rimmed baking sheet with foil and set a wire rack inside. Transfer cooled cookies to rack.
Pulse strawberries in a food processor until finely ground. Pass through a fine-mesh sieve into a small bowl to remove larger pieces; set strawberry powder aside.
Place 1/4 cup cold water in a small bowl and sprinkle gelatin over top; let sit until gelatin is softened, 10–15 minutes.
Beat egg whites, salt, and 2 tsp. granulated sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment on medium-high speed to soft peaks.
Heat corn syrup, remaining 1/2 cup granulated sugar, and 3 Tbsp. water in a small saucepan over medium-low, stirring with a heatproof spatula until sugar is dissolved. Fit saucepan with thermometer and bring syrup to a boil; cook, brushing down sides of saucepan with a wet pastry brush to dissolve any crystals, until thermometer registers 242 degrees F. Working quickly through the next few steps, immediately remove syrup from heat and add gelatin mixture, stirring with spatula just until melted. With mixer on medium speed, gradually stream syrup into egg whites, aiming for the space between the sides of the bowl and the whisk. Increase speed to high and beat until marshmallow is very light, thick, and glossy and the sides of the bowl feel cool to the touch, 10–12 minutes. Beat in reserved strawberry powder.
Transfer marshmallow mixture to a disposable pastry bag and snip a 1 inch opening off the end (or use a resealable plastic bag and cut off 1 corner). Position end of piping bag 1/2 inch from surface of cookie, holding bag perpendicular; applying even pressure, begin slowly piping (do not move the bag). Pipe until marshmallow has expanded to the diameter of the cookie, then slowly lift the tip upward to create a soft peak. (Imagine a tall Hershey’s Kiss shape about 2 inch high.) When all the cookies have been topped with marshmallow, chill uncovered on baking sheet until marshmallow is set, 2–2 1/2 hours. (Loosely cover at this point and chill up to 12 hours if desired.)
Heat chocolate and oil in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water (do not let water touch bottom of bowl), stirring until chocolate is melted and incorporated. Let cool slightly.
Drizzle a level tablespoon of chocolate mixture over each marshmallow cookie, coating completely. Sprinkle with pearl and/or sanding sugar if desired.
Once all cookies have been coated, use a small offset spatula to nudge at the base across the rack to remove any drips. Chill until chocolate is set, at least 30 minutes. Decorate with luster dust if desired.

Fruity Rum Bundt Cake 
1/2 cup chopped dried apricots
1/2 cup dried tart cherries
1/2 cup golden raisins
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons gold rum, divided
3 tablespoons plus 3 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for pan
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
5 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 1/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons (or more) sour cream
2 cups raw sugar, plus more for serving
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
7 large egg yolks
1 large egg
1 cup powdered sugar
A 12-cup Bundt pan

Combine apricots, cherries, raisins, and 1/2 cup rum in a small bowl and let sit 30 minutes to allow fruit to rehydrate. Drain, reserving rum. Sprinkle fruit with 3 Tbsp. flour and toss to coat; set aside.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Thoroughly butter pan, making sure to get into all the curved or ridged places; dust pan with flour (do this even if your pan has a nonstick coating). Whisk baking powder, salt, cloves, and 3 cups flour in a medium bowl to combine. Whisk reserved rum, oil, and 1 1/4 cups sour cream in another medium bowl to combine.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat 2 cups raw sugar and remaining 1 cup butter in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean; reserve pod for another use. Add egg yolks and egg one at a time, beating to blend after each addition; beat until mixture is light and very fluffy, about 4 minutes. Reduce speed to low. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with sour cream mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Fold in reserved dried fruit. Scrape batter into prepared pan; smooth top. Tap pan firmly a few times on counter to force batter into edges of pan.
Bake cake until golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 60–70 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool in pan 15 minutes. Invert cake onto a serving plate; carefully remove pan and brush warm cake with remaining 2 Tbsp. rum. Let cool completely, about 3 hours.
Mix powdered sugar and remaining 2 Tbsp. sour cream in another small bowl, thinning with more sour cream if desired (the thinner the glaze, the further it will drip down the sides of the cake), until smooth. Drizzle glaze over cake, working along the center of the top of the cake for even coverage, and sprinkle with raw sugar. Let sit 10 minutes for glaze to set before slicing with a serrated knife.
Cake can be baked 1 day ahead. Do not glaze. Store loosely covered at room temperature.

Hershey's  inchPerfectly Chocolate inch Chocolate Cake 
2 cups sugar
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup Hershey's Cocoa powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 eggs
1 cup milk
1/2 cup vegetable oil
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup boiling water
1/2 cup butter
2/3 cup Hershey's Cocoa Powder
3 cups powdered sugar
1/3 cup milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease and flour two 9-inch round baking pans.
Stir together sugar, flour, cocoa, baking powder, baking soda and salt in large bowl. Add eggs, milk, oil, and vanilla; beat on medium speed of an electric mixer for 2 minutes. Stir in boiling water. Pour batter into prepared pans.
Bake 30 to 35 minutes or until wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool 10 minutes; remove from pans to wire racks. Cool completely. Frost with  inchPerfectly Chocolate inch Chocolate Frosting.
Melt butter. Stir in cocoa. Alternately add powdered sugar and milk, beating to spreading consistency.
Add small amount additional milk, if needed. Stir in vanilla.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. Grease and flour 13x9x2-inch baking pan. Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake 35 to 40 minutes or until wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool completely. Frost.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. Grease and flour three 8-inch round baking pans. Pour batter into prepared pans. Bake 30 to 35 minutes or until wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool 10 minutes; remove from pans to wire racks. Cool completely. Frost.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. Grease and flour 12-cup fluted tube pan. Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake 50 to 55 minutes or until wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool 15 minutes; remove from pan to wire rack. Cool completely. Frost.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line muffin cups (2-1/2 inches in diameter) with paper bake cups. Fill cups 2/3 full with batter and bake 22 to 25 minutes or until wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool 10 minutes; remove from pans to wire racks. Cool completely. Frost.
This recipe is made available as a courtesy by the Hershey Company.

Toll House Chocolate Chip Cookies 
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) butter, softened
3/4 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup packed brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 large eggs
2 cups Nestlé Toll House Semi-Sweet Chocolate Morsels
1 cup chopped nuts

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Combine flour, baking soda, and salt in small bowl. Beat butter, granulated sugar, brown sugar, and vanilla extract in large mixer bowl until creamy. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Gradually beat in flour mixture. Stir in morsels and nuts. Drop by rounded tablespoon onto ungreased baking sheets.
Bake for 9 to 11 minutes or until golden brown. Cool on baking sheets for 2 minutes; remove to wire racks to cool completely.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. Grease 15 x 10-inch jelly-roll pan. Prepare dough as above. Spread into prepared pan. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes or until golden brown. Cool in pan on wire rack. Makes 4 dozen bars.
Prepare dough as above. Divide in half; wrap in waxed paper. Refrigerate for 1 hour or until firm. Shape each half into 15-inch log; wrap in wax paper. Refrigerate for 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees  F. Cut into 1/2-inch-thick slices; place on ungreased baking sheets. Bake for 8 to 10 minutes or until golden brown. Cool on baking sheets for 2 minutes; remove to wire racks to cool completely. Makes about 5 dozen cookies.
Dough may be stored in refrigerator for up to 1 week or in freezer for up to 8 weeks.
This recipe is made available as a courtesy by Nestle USA and www.VeryBestBaking.com. Nestle® Toll House® is a registered trademark of Société des Produits Nestlé S.A., Vevey, Switzerland.

Simple Christmas Cookies 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into pieces, chilled
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup (packed) light brown sugar
2 large egg yolks
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon kosher salt
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom, cloves, or nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
2 cups plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour, plus more for surface
Colored sanding sugars or royal icing (optional; for decorating)
Assorted cookie cutters

Process butter in a food processor until smooth. Add granulated sugar and brown sugar and process until thoroughly blended into butter, about 1 minute. Add egg yolks and vanilla; process until mixture is smooth and looks glossy, about 30 seconds. Add salt, cinnamon, ginger, cardamom, baking powder, and 2 cups plus 2 Tbsp. flour; pulse until dough comes together around the blade. Turn out onto a work surface and knead a couple of times to incorporate any floury bits. Divide dough in half; pat into two 1/2 inch-thick disks. Wrap in plastic and chill until firm, 45–60 minutes.
Let dough sit 5 minutes at room temperature to soften slightly.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Working with 1 disk at a time, roll out dough on a lightly floured surface to 1/4 inch thick. Punch out cookies with cookie cutters and transfer to parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing at least 1 inch apart. Sprinkle with sanding sugar, if using, and press in lightly to adhere. Gather up scraps and reroll once. Chill cookies on baking sheets until firm, 5–10 minutes, then bake until edges are golden brown, 12–18 minutes. Let cool 5 minutes on baking sheet; transfer to a wire rack and let cool completely.
If using royal icing, decorate cooled cookies and let dry 2 hours.
Dough can be made 1 month ahead; freeze instead of chilling. Cookies can be baked 2 weeks ahead (do not decorate with royal icing); place in airtight container and freeze.

Dulce de Leche Brownies 
Nonstick baking spray
5 (1-ounce) squares unsweetened chocolate
1 cup (2 sticks) butter, softened
2 cups sugar
4 eggs
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1/2 (14-ounce) can dulce de leche

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Generously spray an 8-inch square baking pan or an 8x10-inch baking pan with nonstick baking spray.
Place the chocolate in a microwave-safe bowl and nuke it in about 45-second intervals, stirring each time, until it’s completely melted. Set it aside to cool for 20 minutes or so.
Add the butter and the sugar to the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and cream them together until they’re light and fluffy.
Add the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.
With the mixer on low, slowly drizzle in the chocolate until it’s all combined. Add the flour and the vanilla. And mix until it’s all combined, scraping the sides of the bowl halfway through.
Spread the batter into the greased pan.
Next, crack open the can of dulce de leche and place half of it in a glass bowl. Warm it in the microwave for 30 to 45 seconds, just to make it a little more stirrable.
Drop large dollops of dulce de leche on the surface of the batter then use a knife to slowly swirl it through the brownie batter. Don’t drag the knife sideways through the batter; hold it so the thin side of the knife leads the way.
Bake the brownies for 45 to 50 minutes, or until the center is almost totally set.
Let the brownies cool in the pan for 15 minutes then use a very sharp serrated knife to cut the brownies into squares and place them on a pretty cake stand.

Black-and-White Halvah 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3/4 cup white tahini
1 teaspoon kosher salt, divided
1 1/3 cups sugar, divided
3/4 cup black tahini
A candy thermometer

Lightly coat an 8 1/2x4 1/2 inch loaf pan with nonstick spray and line with parchment paper, leaving a 2 inch overhang on long sides. Place a sheet of parchment paper on work surface and lightly coat with nonstick spray. Beat white tahini and 1/2 tsp. salt in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment on low speed just until smooth.
Meanwhile, place 2/3 cup sugar in a small saucepan and remaining 2/3 cup sugar in another small saucepan. Add 1/4 cup water to each saucepan and set both saucepans over low heat. Cook, stirring with a rubber spatula to dissolve, about 4 minutes. Keep 1 saucepan over low and increase heat to medium-high for other saucepan and fit with thermometer. Cook syrup, brushing down sides of saucepan with a wet pastry brush to dissolve any crystals, until thermometer registers 248 degrees F, 7–10 minutes.
Immediately remove saucepan with boiling syrup from heat. Increase mixer speed to medium and gradually stream syrup into white tahini, aiming for the space between the sides of the bowl and the paddle. Beat just until halvah comes together in a smooth mass, less than a minute. (Do not overmix or it will be crumbly.) Working quickly, scrape onto prepared parchment and flatten with spatula until 3/4 inch thick. Invert a medium bowl over halvah to keep warm.
Rinse any hardened sugar off thermometer; clip to second saucepan. Increase heat to medium-high and cook syrup, brushing down sides of saucepan with wet pastry brush, until thermometer registers 248 degrees F, about 4 minutes.
While the syrup is cooking, briefly beat black tahini and remaining 1/2 tsp. salt in the same bowl of stand mixer (no need to clean it out unless you have lots of hardened sugar stuck around sides) until smooth. Stream in syrup and mix just until halvah comes together in a smooth mass.
Uncover white halvah (it should still be warm) and scrape black halvah on top; flatten to about the same shape as the white halvah. Using the sides of the parchment to lift edges, fold stacked halvah in half and flatten slightly. Repeat folding and flattening motions 4–5 times, rotating halvah as you work, to create a marbled effect (be careful not to work it too much or mixture will be crumbly). Press into prepared pan. Fold sides of parchment paper over top of halvah and let cool, at least 3 hours.
Lift halvah out of pan using parchment overhang. Peel away parchment; cut halvah crosswise into 1/2 inch-thick slices.
Halvah can be made 3 days ahead. Leave in pan. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.

Christmas Glazed Apple Cake (Weihnachten Gedeckter Apfelkuchen) 
2 1/3 cups, scooped and leveled, plus 1 tablespoon/300g all-purpose flour
3/4 cup/150g plus 1 tablespoon granulated sugar, divided
1 teaspoon baking powder
Pinch of salt
10 1/2 tablespoons/150g unsalted high-fat, European-style butter, softened
1 egg, at room temperature
6 large apples (2 pounds 10 ounces/1.2kg)
Juice of 1 lemon plus 2 teaspoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
1 1/4 teaspoon Lebkuchen Spice Mix
1 cup fresh cranberries
1/4 cup/60ml plus 2 teaspoons water
3/4 cup/75g confectioners’ sugar

Mix the flour, 3/4 cup granulated sugar, baking powder, and salt together in a large bowl. Cut the butter into cubes and add to the flour mixture. Using a pastry cutter or your hands, work the butter into the flour until it’s no longer visible. Add the egg and knead until the dough is smooth. Wrap tightly in plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 1 hour and up to 24 hours.
Peel, core, and quarter the apples. Cut them into slices 1/8 to 1/4 inch/3 to 6mm thick and put the slices in a large pot. Add the juice of 1 lemon along with the Lebkuchen Spice and the 1/4 cup/60ml of water. Cover the pot and bring to a simmer over medium heat, stirring occasionally. Cook the apples for 15 to 20 minutes, or until silky and relatively broken down. The apples should not turn completely to mush but still retain some shape. Take the pot off the heat and stir in the cranberries and the remaining 1 Tbsp granulated sugar.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F/180 degrees C. Line the bottom of a 9-inch/23cm springform pan with parchment paper. Take two-thirds of the dough and pat it evenly into the springform pan, forming a 1-inch-/2.5cm-high rim at the edges. Refrigerate the remaining dough. Prick the dough in the pan evenly all over with a fork. Line the dough with a sheet of aluminum foil and fill the pan with pie weights or dried beans. Bake for 20 to 30 minutes, or until the crust is starting to firm up but is not yet browning. Remove from the oven and carefully remove the aluminum foil and pie weights; maintain the oven temperature.
Scrape the apple mixture evenly into the par-baked shell and smooth the top. The apple filling should precisely fill the crust. Roll out the remaining one-third of the dough between two pieces of plastic wrap until just slightly larger than the circumference of the pan. Trim the edges of the circle and then gently transfer the circle to the top of the cake, laying it over the apple filling. Tuck in the top crust and cut off any excess. Cut 3 small slits in the top of the dough. Put the pan back in the oven and bake for 35 to 45 minutes, or until the top is golden brown and slightly puffed.
Remove the pan from the oven and let cool for 10 minutes while you prepare the glaze. Sieve the confectioners’ sugar into a small bowl and whisk in the 2 teaspoons of lemon juice and the 2 teaspoons of water until smooth. Brush the glaze over the still-hot cake and then let the cake cool completely before serving. The cake will keep at room temperature, covered lightly with plastic wrap, for 2 to 3 days.

Buckwheat Banana Cake with Yogurt-Espresso Frosting 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 cup whole wheat flour
1/2 cup buckwheat flour or whole wheat flour
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
4 very ripe bananas
2/3 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
2 large eggs, beaten to blend
1/2 cup olive oil
1/2 cup sour cream
4 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup plain Greek yogurt
Pinch of kosher salt
1/3 cup powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon espresso powder

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat an 8 1/2x4 1/2 inch loaf pan with nonstick spray, then line with parchment, letting it hang over on both of the longer sides. Whisk whole wheat flour, buckwheat flour, cinnamon, salt, baking soda, and baking powder in a medium bowl.
Mash bananas and brown sugar in a large bowl until virtually no lumps of banana remain and brown sugar is dissolved. Mix in eggs, oil, and sour cream. Add dry ingredients and mix in with a rubber spatula. Scrape batter into prepared pan and smooth top.
Bake cake until the top springs back when gently pressed and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 55–65 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool in pan 30 minutes. Turn out cake onto rack and let cool completely.
Whisk cream cheese, yogurt, and salt in a large bowl until no lumps remain. Sift powdered sugar through a fine-mesh sieve into bowl and whisk vigorously to combine, then stir in espresso powder.
Cake can be baked 4 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature. Frosting can be made 3 days ahead. Cover and chill.

Hazelnut and Buckwheat Financiers With Figs 
3/4 cup skin-on hazelnuts
1 1/4 cups powdered sugar
1/3 cup buckwheat flour
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
4 large egg whites
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3 fresh or dried figs, cut lengthwise into 6 wedges (optional)
Demerara or raw sugar (for sprinkling)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Toast hazelnuts on a large rimmed baking sheet until skins are slightly darkened and split, 12–15 minutes. Let cool, then bundle in a kitchen towel and rub vigorously to remove skins (there will definitely be some stubborn pieces that refuse to come off—do what you can). Transfer to a food processor and pulse until finely ground. Whisk hazelnuts, powdered sugar, buckwheat flour, and salt in a medium bowl to combine.
Cook butter in a small saucepan over medium heat until it foams, then browns (be careful not to let it burn), 5–7 minutes. Let cool slightly.
Whisk egg whites in a medium bowl until foamy (you’re not trying to create volume; you just want to break them up), then whisk into dry ingredients. Whisk in brown butter. Cover and chill batter until firm, at least 2 hours.
Reheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously coat six 4-oz. fluted financier molds or a standard 12-cup muffin pan with nonstick spray. Divide batter among molds (use about 1/3 cup batter per mold, or 2 mounded Tbsp. if using a muffin pan). Top with figs (if using) and sprinkle with demerara sugar. Bake until tops are browned and edges are firm, 20–25 minutes. Transfer pans to a wire rack and let financiers cool 10 minutes in pans before turning out onto racks. Let cool completely.
Batter can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.

Spiced Hazelnut-Pear Cake With Chocolate Sauce 
10 ripe but firm Bosc pears (about 3 3/4 pounds)
2 cups dry white wine
1/2 cup light brown sugar
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, cubed
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) butter, softened, plus more for pan
1 cup blanched hazelnuts
2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
2 1/4 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/4 cups light brown sugar
1/3 cup granulated sugar
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 large eggs
3 ounces dark chocolate, coarsely chopped
1 1/2 cups heavy cream, divided
A 9 inch cake pan (preferably springform)

Peel pears. Using a 1/2 tsp. measuring spoon or small melon baller, scoop upward from bottom of pears 1 1/2–2 inch to remove core and seeds; discard. Combine pears, wine, brown sugar, butter, cinnamon, vanilla, and 3 cups water in a large, heavy pot. Cut a round of parchment to fit just inside pot and cover pears.
Bring to a boil, then reduce heat and simmer, turning pears occasionally to coat with liquid, until pears are very tender but not falling apart, 20–25 minutes. Using a slotted spoon, transfer pears to a large bowl and cover with parchment round.
Bring poaching liquid to a boil, then cook over medium heat until reduced to the consistency of thick syrup, 12–15 minutes (you should have 1/2 cup). Transfer 5 pears to a medium bowl, reserving remaining pears for cake, and pour syrup over. Cover with parchment and let cool, or chill overnight.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease cake pan with butter and line bottom with parchment paper.
Toast hazelnuts on a rimmed baking sheet, tossing occasionally, until golden brown, 6–8 minutes.
Meanwhile, mix flour, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, and salt in a medium bowl.
Pulse 1/2 cup dry ingredients and 3/4 cup hazelnuts in a food processor until hazelnuts are chopped into a fine flour; reserve remaining hazelnuts. Transfer chopped hazelnuts to bowl with dry ingredients.
Wipe out food processor bowl and add 5 poached pears. Pulse until smooth. Transfer 2 cups to a small bowl; discard leftover purée.
Beat brown sugar, granulated sugar, vanilla, and 3/4 cup butter on medium-high speed in a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment until light and fluffy, 3–5 minutes. Scrape down bowl and add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition.
Add half of pear purée and beat on low speed. Add half of flour mixture and beat on low to incorporate. Beat in remaining pear purée and flour mixture until combined. Pour into prepared pan; smooth top. Set pan on a rimmed baking sheet and bake cake, rotating sheet halfway through, until center is set and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, about 1 hour, 15 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cool.
Turn chilled pears in liquid to coat, then transfer liquid (about 1/2 cup) to a small saucepan. Add chocolate and 3/4 cup cream and cook over medium-low heat, stirring, just until chocolate is melted. Whisk to combine, then transfer to a medium bowl. Chill, stirring occasionally so chocolate doesn't set, until room temperature, about 10 minutes.
Remove cake from pan, trim top with a serrated knife if domed, and invert onto a 12 inch platter. Remove parchment. Using a toothpick, poke holes all over top of cake. Using a pastry brush, brush top with 1/4 cup chocolate sauce.
Meanwhile, coarsely chop remaining 1/4 cup toasted hazelnuts. Whip remaining 3/4 cup cream to medium-soft peaks in stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment.
Top cake with whipped cream, pears, and hazelnuts. Drizzle chocolate sauce over pears. Serve remaining chocolate sauce alongside.
Cake and pears can be made 2 days ahead; cover in separate containers and chill.

Philadelphia Classic Cheesecake 
1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons plus 1 cup sugar, divided
1/3 cup butter, melted
4 packages (8 oz. each) Philadelphia Cream Cheese, softened
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 eggs

Heat oven to 325 degrees F.
Combine graham crumbs, 3 tablespoons sugar and butter; press onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan.
Beat cream cheese, 1 cup of the remaining sugar and vanilla with mixer until blended. Add eggs, 1 at a time, mixing on low speed after each just until blended. Pour over crust.
Bake until center is almost set, about 55 minutes. Run knife around rim of pan to loosen cake; cool before removing rim. Refrigerate cheesecake 4 hours.
Recipe is courtesy of The Kraft Heinz Company.

Double Chocolate Espresso Cookies 
18 tablespoons (2 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 cup light brown sugar
2 large eggs, at room temperature
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon kosher salt
2 tablespoons instant espresso powder, like Medaglia D’Oro, or similar
12 ounces semisweet chocolate chips

Heat the oven to 350 degrees F.
In a large bowl, cream the butter and sugars until light and fluffy. Add the eggs one at time, mixing after each addition to make sure they are well combined.
In a separate bowl, combine the dry ingredients: flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, salt, and espresso powder. I use a whisk to make sure they are well blended.
With the mixer on low, slowly add the dry ingredients to the wet ingredients, scraping down the sides of the bowl as needed. Mix everything until the ingredients are fully combined, but do not overbeat. Using a wooden spoon, stir in the chocolate chips.
Line a baking sheet with a Silpat mat or parchment paper. Using a 1 1/2-inch ice cream scoop or a rounded teaspoon, drop the dough on the sheet 2 inches apart. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the tops look dry. Do not overbake, or the cookies will not be chewy. Cool on a wire rack and serve.

Yeasted Apple Coffee Cake 
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, slightly cooled, plus more
1 1/4-ounce envelope active dry yeast (about 2 1/4 teaspoons)
2/3 cup (packed) light brown sugar, divided
1 large egg, room temperature
3 cups all-purpose flour, divided
1/2 cup sour cream, room temperature
2 teaspoons finely grated orange zest
1/3 cup fresh orange juice
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup old-fashioned oats
1/3 cup (packed) light brown sugar
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Kosher salt
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, slightly cooled
2 pounds firm baking apples (about 4 large), halved, cored, very thinly sliced
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
2 tablespoons (or more) fresh orange juice

Butter a 13x9 inch shallow baking dish. Mix yeast, 2 Tbsp. brown sugar, and 1/4 cup warm water in the bowl of a stand mixer; let sit until it foams, about 5 minutes. Whisk in egg and remaining brown sugar, then stir in 1 cup flour and mix with a wooden spoon to incorporate. Sprinkle remaining 2 cups flour over top but do not mix in. Cover with plastic wrap and let sit in a warm, draft-free spot until mixture is visibly puffed and flour has cracks in places, 60–90 minutes.
Add sour cream, orange zest, orange juice, baking powder, and salt to mixture and mix on medium speed with dough hook until smooth, elastic, and just sticking to the sides of bowl, about 4 minutes. Add 6 Tbsp. butter in 2 additions, beating well between additions; beat until a soft, slightly glossy, sticky dough-batter hybrid forms, about 4 minutes.
Using buttered fingers, pat dough into prepared pan in an even layer, spreading to edges. Cover and let sit in a warm, draft-free spot until puffed and nearly doubled in size, 60–70 minutes.
Just before dough is finished rising, preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Pulse flour, oats, brown sugar, granulated sugar, cinnamon, and a pinch of salt in a food processor a few times to combine. Add butter and process in long pulses until streusel is the consistency of moist crumbs.
Working with several slices at a time, fan out apples slightly and arrange over dough, shingling rows in different directions; sprinkle streusel over top. Bake until apples are tender and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 35–45 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack and let cool.
Whisk powdered sugar, orange juice, and a pinch of salt in a medium bowl, adding more orange juice by the teaspoonful as needed, until icing is very thick and smooth and falls back onto itself in a slowly dissolving ribbon. Drizzle over coffee cake.

Ombre Christmas Tree Cookies 
All-purpose flour (for dusting)
1 batch All-in-One Sugar Cookie Dough, chilled
2 cups white royal icing
Sanding sugar in 3 shades of green and gold dragees (for decorating)
3 inch–5 inch tree cookie cutters; a small offset spatula

Position racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper.
Generously flour a rolling pin and work surface. Working with 1 disc at a time, roll dough to 1/4 inch thick. Cut out as many cookies as possible with cookie cutters (if dough becomes too soft, chill until firm). Place cookies 1/2 inch apart on prepared baking sheets. Chill 15 minutes.
Bake cookies until edges are light golden brown, 10–12 minutes. Transfer to wire racks and let cool.
Using small offset spatula, frost trees with icing. While still wet, decorate each cookie in 3 sections to create an ombre effect—start by covering bottom third with darkest green sanding sugar. Sprinkle the medium green shade in the center, then the light green shade over the top third. Tap cookie lightly to remove excess sprinkles. Top tips of trees with gold dragees to look like a tree topper. Let icing dry before storing cookies, about 3 hours.
Cookies can be made 10 days ahead; store in an airtight container at room temperature.

Chocolate Blackout Cookies 
1 large egg white
1 3/4 cups powdered sugar
4 ounces semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
4 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder, preferably Dutch process
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon instant espresso powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
3 large eggs, room temperature
1 1/4 cups (packed) dark brown sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon kosher salt
3 ounces semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
1/4 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature, cut into pieces

Whisk egg white in a medium bowl just to loosen. Add powdered sugar and 1/2 tsp. water and whisk until smooth. Mixture should be smooth, satiny, and very thick. If mixture is too thick or gloppy, whisk in another 1/2 tsp. water. Transfer to a disposable pastry bag and snip off end of bag (or use a resealable plastic bag and cut off 1 corner) to make a very small opening.
Pipe icing in very thin, very straight lines across a parchment-lined baking sheet, spacing close together (if icing does not squeeze out of bag easily, snip a slightly larger opening). Keep piping until you’ve covered the entire sheet of parchment (discard leftover icing or save for another use). Let sit at room temperature until hardened, at least 8 hours and up to 1 day (to speed up drying, you can also bake sprinkles in a 150 degrees F oven for 2–2 1/2 hours). Lift ends of parchment to break sprinkles into various lengths, then gently roll your fingers over top to loosen from parchment paper.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Heat chocolate and butter in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water (do not let water touch bottom of bowl), stirring until melted and mixture is smooth. Let cool.
Meanwhile, sift flour, cocoa, baking powder, espresso powder, and baking soda in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat eggs, brown sugar, vanilla, and salt in a large bowl until thick and light, about 3 minutes. Reduce speed to low and add chocolate mixture; mix just to combine. Turn off mixer. Add dry ingredients and pulse mixer on low until no dry spots remain. If dough is very soft, cover and chill until firm enough to scoop, 10–15 minutes.
Using a 1 1/2 oz. scoop (or a scant 1/4 cup), portion out dough and roll into balls between your palms (if dough becomes very sticky while rolling, chill for a few minutes). Place balls on 2 parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing at least 2 inch apart; flatten slightly. Bake cookies, rotating baking sheets once, until centers are puffed and edges are just firm,13–18 minutes. Let cookies cool 20 minutes on baking sheets, then peel away parchment and transfer to a wire rack. Let cool completely.
Heat chocolate, cream, corn syrup, and salt in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water (do not let water touch bottom of bowl), stirring until chocolate is melted and mixture is smooth. Let cool.
Whisk powdered sugar and vanilla into chocolate mixture, then add butter 1 piece at a time, whisking to incorporate fully after each addition. Whisk until icing looks smooth and glossy.
Using an offset spatula, spread about 1 Tbsp. icing over each cookie and top with sprinkles.
Sprinkles can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature. Cookies can be baked 1 day ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.

Dark Ginger Rye Cake With Yogurt and Honey 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 cup robust-flavored (dark) molasses (not blackstrap)
1 cup stout
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 1/2 cups rye flour
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
3 large eggs
1 cup granulated sugar
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1 teaspoon finely grated peeled ginger
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup virgin coconut oil, melted, slightly cooled
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1/4 cup honey
2 cups plain whole-milk yogurt
A 10-inch-diameter springform pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat pan with nonstick spray. Bring molasses and stout to a simmer in a small saucepan, whisking to incorporate. Remove from heat and stir in baking soda; let cool.
Sift rye flour, all-purpose flour, ground ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg, and pepper through a coarse-mesh sieve into a medium bowl. Stir in baking powder and salt. Whisk eggs, granulated sugar, brown sugar, fresh ginger, and vanilla extract in a large bowl to combine. Whisk in coconut oil, vegetable oil, and cooled molasses mixture. Add dry ingredients and fold just until blended. Scrape batter into prepared pan.
Bake cake until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool in pan 10 minutes. Run a knife around sides of cake and unmold. Let cool completely.
Break cake into large pieces and arrange on a platter. Swirl honey into yogurt in a small bowl and serve alongside cake.
Cake can be made 3 days ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.

Gingersnap Peach Upside-Down Cake 
4 to 5 cups peeled and sliced fresh peaches (5 or 6 peaches)
1/4 cup finely chopped crystallized ginger
1/4 cup unsalted butter, plus 2 tablespoons, softened
3/4 cup firmly packed brown sugar
1 cup crushed gingersnap cookies (8 to 12 cookies)
2/3 cup white sugar
2 tablespoons vegetable shortening
1 egg
1 egg yolk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup half-and-half
Whipped cream or vanilla ice cream, to serve

Line the slow cooker with a large sheet of parchment paper, letting the ends reach over the rim, and pushing the paper firmly into the bottom of the slow cooker insert. Generously spray the parchment paper with cooking spray.
In a large bowl, combine the peaches and crystallized ginger. Set aside.
In a small saucepan on the stovetop over medium heat, melt 1/4 cup of the butter. Stir in the brown sugar. Pour this mixture into the slow cooker and spread evenly over the bottom. Next, spoon the peach and crystallized ginger mixture over the butter mixture. Do not stir. Then sprinkle with the gingersnap cookie crumbs.
Use a hand-held mixer to cream together the white sugar, shortening, and the remaining 2 tablespoons of softened butter in a bowl. Add the egg, egg yolk, and vanilla and mix in. In a separate bowl, combine the flour, baking powder, and salt. Alternate adding the flour mixture and the half-and-half to the creamed sugar mixture. Mix well and spoon on top of the gingersnap layer, spreading the mixture a bit, but not mixing it. Everything should be layered.
Place several layers of paper towels over the slow cooker and replace the lid. Turn the slow cooker to high and cook for 1 1/2 to 2 hours, until a knife inserted into the middle comes out clean.
Remove the lid from the slow cooker and cook an additional 15 to 20 minutes for the top to form a crust.
Lift the cake from the slow cooker using the long ends of the parchment paper and place on a large dinner plate. Place a second dinner plate on top. Holding both plates, carefully flip it over and remove the parchment paper. Slice the cake and serve topped with freshly whipped cream or vanilla ice cream.

Blondie Sundaes With Fried Walnuts and Candied Fennel 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/3 cups buckwheat flour
1/3 cup almond flour or meal
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
3/4 cup sugar
5 large egg yolks
1 large egg
1 cup raw walnuts
1 cup sugar
1 large fennel bulb, fronds reserved, bulb cored, thinly sliced
Zest from 1 lemon, removed in wide strips
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
Vegetable oil (for frying; about 4 cups)
2/3 cup powdered sugar
2 pints vanilla gelato or ice cream
1 pint ground cherries or cape gooseberries, husks removed, rinsed, halved (optional)
A deep-fry thermometer

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly coat a 13x9 inch baking dish with nonstick spray. Whisk buckwheat flour, almond flour, and salt in a medium bowl to combine.
Cook butter in a medium saucepan over medium-low heat, stirring often, until it foams, then browns, 5–8 minutes. Transfer to a large bowl; let cool slightly. Add sugar and whisk until smooth. Whisking constantly, add egg yolks one at a time followed by whole egg, beating after each addition to fully incorporate before adding more. Add dry ingredients and mix until smooth. Scrape batter into prepared dish; smooth top.
Bake blondies until lightly browned and center is firm when gently pressed, 15–20 minutes. Transfer dish to a wire rack and let cool. Cut into 16 bars.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Toast walnuts on a rimmed baking sheet, tossing once, until golden brown, 5–8 minutes. Let cool slightly; place in a heatproof jar or airtight container.
Heat sugar and 1 cup water in a medium saucepan over medium, stirring, until sugar dissolves. Let cool slightly; then pour over walnuts. Seal jar and let sit at least 12 hours and up to 1 day.
Pour walnuts into a fine-mesh sieve set over a clean medium saucepan and let syrup drain into saucepan, tossing walnuts to shake off excess. Transfer walnuts to a medium bowl. Reserve sieve.
Add sliced fennel and lemon zest to syrup; scrape in vanilla seeds and add pod. Bring to a simmer over low heat. Cook, stirring occasionally, until fennel is translucent and tender, 20–25 minutes. Discard pod; let fennel cool in syrup.
Fit another medium saucepan with thermometer; pour in oil to come 2 inch up sides of pan. Heat oil over medium-high until thermometer registers 350 degrees F. Add powdered sugar to walnuts and toss to coat. Place in reserved sieve and shake off excess sugar. Carefully add walnuts to oil and cook, turning with a spider or slotted spoon to prevent sticking, until brown and crisp, about 3 minutes. Transfer to a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet; let cool. Break up any clumps.
Scoop gelato into bowls. Top with ground cherries, blondies broken into large pieces, walnuts, candied fennel, and fennel fronds.
Blondies can be made 2 days ahead. Store tightly covered at room temperature.
Walnuts can be fried 2 days ahead. Let cool; store airtight at room temperature. Fennel can be candied 2 days ahead. Let cool in syrup; transfer to an airtight container and chill.

 inchBrown on Blonde inch Blondies 
170 grams unsalted butter
100 grams walnuts
55 grams pecans
272 grams all-purpose flour
6 grams baking powder
3 grams kosher salt
55 grams almond butter
346 grams dark brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
1 tablespoon vanilla extract

Crank the oven to 350ºF. Coat the insides of an 8-inch square baking pan with non-stick cooking spray and line with a sling of parchment paper.
Melt the butter in an 8-inch sauté pan over medium heat. When it's done bubbling, add the walnuts and pecans and cook until the nuts are toasted and the butter smells nutty, 5 to 7 minutes.
Meanwhile whisk together the flour, baking powder, and salt in a small bowl.
Place a fine-mesh strainer over a large heatproof bowl and strain the butter away from the nuts. Set both aside to cool for 30 minutes. Then, chop the nuts coarsely and set aside.
While you're waiting, beat the almond butter into the cooled butter, followed by the brown sugar, eggs, egg yolk, and vanilla. Beat until completely smooth, about 1 minute, then stir in the flour mixture. Finish by folding in the nuts and transferring to the prepared pan. The batter will be thick, so I suggest a rubber or silicone spatula.
Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, until the edges are deeply brown and the top is dry and cracked. Remove from the pan and cool on a rack for about 30 minutes. Slice into squares and devour with plenty of frosty almond milk.

Lemon Blueberry Cupcakes with a Citrus Glaze 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups whole milk, at room temperature
2 1/4 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 3/4 cups sugar
2 large eggs, at room temperature
Juice and zest from 2 lemons
1/2 cup fresh blueberries (or frozen if you can’t find fresh)
1 1/4 cups confectioners’ sugar, sifted
1/2 teaspoon lemon zest
3 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat the oven to 350ºF. Line a cupcake pan with twelve paper baking cups, or grease the pan with butter if not using baking cups.
Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt on a sheet of parchment paper or wax paper and set aside.
Combine the milk and vanilla extract in a large liquid measuring cup.
In the bowl of a stand mixer or in a bowl with a handheld electric mixer, cream together the butter and sugar for 3 to 5 minutes, until it is light and fluffy.
Add the eggs one at a time, mixing slowly after each addition.
Slowly add one third of the dry ingredients followed by one third of the milk mixture. Mix slowly, and then add another third of the dry ingredients, followed by one third of the milk. Mix slowly until incorporated. Stop to scrape down the bowl as needed. Then, finally, add the last third of the dry ingredients, followed by the last third of the milk. Mix slowly until fully incorporated.
Add the lemon juice and lemon zest, and mix slowly.
Using a spatula, gently fold the blueberries into the batter.
Using a standard-size ice-cream scoop, scoop the batter into the cupcake pan until each well is two-thirds full and bake for 16 to 18 minutes (start checking at 15 minutes).
Transfer the pan to a wire rack to cool completely.
Whisk together the confectioners’ sugar, lemon zest, lemon juice, and vanilla extract in a small bowl, and heat in a small saucepan on low heat until fully incorporated. Let cool for 10 minutes.
Pour glaze over each cupcake and enjoy!

3-Ingredient Flourless Chocolate Cake 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, plus more for pan
8 large eggs
16 ounces semisweet chocolate chips
1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
A 10 inch-diameter springform pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease springform pan with butter and line bottom with parchment.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat eggs in a large bowl until doubled in size, about 5 minutes.
Place chocolate chips, salt, and 1 cup butter in a large microwave-proof bowl. Microwave on high in 10-second bursts, stirring between bursts, until smooth and pourable.
Using a rubber spatula, gently fold one-third of the whipped eggs into chocolate mixture until incorporated. Fold egg and chocolate mixture back into remaining whipped eggs until incorporated.
Transfer to prepared pan; cover bottom and sides of pan completely with foil. Set springform pan inside a large roasting pan; add hot water to a depth of about 1 inch.
Bake cake until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean and sides of cake begin to pull away from pan, 30–40 minutes. Let cool before serving.

Pumpkin Spice Cupcakes 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3 teaspoons baking powder
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon allspice
1 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon salt
16 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature
2 cups sugar
4 eggs
1 1/2 cups pumpkin purée (homemade preferred, but you can also use canned purée)
2 tablespoons honey
1/3 cup hot water
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature
8 cups confectioners’ sugar, sifted
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
12 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature
1/2 cup pure maple syrup
Small package of white fondant (available at most craft or baking supply stores); brown, red, and yellow food color; gold and brown edible luster dust (optional, available at most craft or baking supply stores)

Preheat the oven to 350ºF. Line two standard cupcake pans with twelve paper baking cups each, or grease pans with butter if not using baking cups.
Sift together the flour, baking powder, cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, and salt on a sheet of parchment paper or wax paper and set aside.
Place the butter in the bowl of a stand mixer or in a bowl with a handheld electric mixer. Beat on medium speed until fluffy. Stop to add the sugar; then beat on medium speed until well incorporated.
Add the eggs one at a time, mixing slowly after each addition. Mix in the pumpkin puree and honey. Reduce the speed to low. Add one third of the flour mixture to the butter mixture, then gradually add one third of the hot water, beating until well incorporated. Add another third of the flour mixture, followed by one third of the hot water. Stop to scrape down the bowl as needed. Add the remaining flour mixture, followed by the remaining hot water, and mix slowly until just combined. Take care not to overmix the batter so the cupcakes will bake up light and fluffy.
Use a standard-size ice-cream scoop to fill each baking cup with batter, so the wells are two-thirds full. Bake for 25 to 30 minutes (start checking at 20 minutes) or until a toothpick inserted into the center of a cupcake comes out clean. Transfer the pan to a wire rack to cool completely.
Place all ingredients in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment; beat until well combined. Be sure to beat on high speed for at least two minutes at the end to ensure that the frosting is light and fluffy.
Line up cooled cupcakes on a sheet of wax paper. Transfer the maple cream-cheese frosting into a plastic piping bag fitted with a large round metal tip (or piping tip of your choice). Apply a signature swirl.
Break white fondant into three equal pieces. Add a small drop of red food color to one piece of fondant, a small drop of yellow food color to the second piece of fondant, and a small drop of brown food color to the third piece of fondant. Using your hands, knead the color into each piece of fondant so the color is uniform throughout. If you’d like the colors to be darker or more intense, add more food color and repeat. Then, starting with one piece of fondant, use a rolling pin to roll the fondant out to a thin sheet. Dust with edible luster dust (optional). Using a mini leaf cookie cutter, cut out leaf shapes and place on top of each cupcake.

Lemon Blossom Cupcakes 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 3/4 cups sugar
2 large eggs, at room temperature
2 1/4 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups whole milk, at room temperature
1/2 cup freshly squeezed lemon juice
1/2 cup freshly grated lemon zest (2 to 3 lemons)
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature
6 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature
4 cups confectioners’ sugar, sifted
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup freshly grated lemon zest (2 to 3 lemons)

Preheat the oven to 350ºF. Line a standard cupcake pan with twelve paper baking cups, or grease the pan with butter if not using baking cups.
Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt on a sheet of parchment paper or wax paper and set aside.
In the bowl of a stand mixer or in a bowl with a handheld electric mixer, cream together the butter and sugar for 3 to 5 minutes, or until light and fluffy. Add the eggs one at a time, mixing slowly after each addition.
Add the vanilla to the milk in a large liquid measuring cup.
Add one third of the dry ingredients followed by one third of the milk, and mix thoroughly. Repeat. Stop to scrape down the bowl as needed. Add the last third of dry ingredients followed by the last third of milk. Mix slowly until just incorporated. Add lemon juice and zest, and mix thoroughly at low speed.
Scoop the batter into the cupcake pan using a standard-size ice-cream scoop until the cups are two-thirds full, and bake for 16 to 18 minutes (start checking at 15 minutes), or until a toothpick comes out clean.
Transfer the pan to a wire rack to cool completely.
Combine the ingredients in a mixer and whip together at high speed until light and airy, approximately 3 to 5 minutes. Frost the cupcakes with a swirl, and top with a lemon wedge or piece of lemon zest!

3-Ingredient Gingersnap Icebox Cake 
2 cups heavy cream
42 gingersnap cookies (about 10 ounces), divided
3/4 cup orange marmalade, divided

Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, whip cream to stiff peaks in a large bowl.
Arrange 10 cookies in a circle (8 around the edge and 2 in the middle) on a cake stand or large plate, breaking 1 center cookie to fit. Top with one-quarter of whipped cream, spreading gently almost to edge of cookies (you’ll want to see them peeking out). Dollop one-quarter of marmalade over. Repeat with 30 cookies and remaining cream and marmalade to make 4 layers, ending with marmalade.
Place remaining 2 cookies in a resealable plastic bag. Using the back of a spoon, rolling pin, or meat mallet, crush to fine crumbs. Sprinkle crumbs over top layer, then chill at least 8 hours and up to 2 days.

Apple Gingerbread Cake With Cream 
3 tablespoons plus 1/2 cup unsalted butter, plus more for pan
1 cup (packed) light brown sugar, divided
1 pound lady apples, unpeeled, very thinly sliced, seeds removed, divided
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 cup robust-flavored (dark) molasses
1/2 cup pure maple syrup
2 large eggs, room temperature
2 tablespoons finely grated peeled ginger
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 cup heavy cream, plus more for serving
A 10-inch springform pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter pan and line bottom with a parchment round; butter parchment. Heat 1 Tbsp. butter, 1/2 cup brown sugar, and 2 Tbsp. water in a large skillet over medium, stirring constantly, until butter is melted and sugar is dissolved. Cook, without stirring but swirling skillet often, until large bubbles that are slow to pop form, about 2 minutes. Pour caramel into prepared pan and tilt pan to evenly coat bottom.
Melt 1 Tbsp. butter in same skillet over medium heat; add half of apples and toss to separate. Cook, tossing often, until apples are softened and almost translucent, about 4 minutes. Repeat process with another 1 Tbsp. butter and remaining apples. Let apples sit until cool enough to handle, then arrange over caramel in several overlapping layers. Set pan aside.
Whisk flour, baking powder, salt, cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg in a large bowl to combine; set aside. Heat molasses, maple syrup, remaining 1/2 cup brown sugar, and remaining 1/2 cup butter in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water, stirring constantly, until butter is melted and mixture is smooth. Whisk in eggs and ginger. Stir baking soda into 1/4 cup very hot water in a small bowl until dissolved, then whisk into molasses mixture. Whisk molasses mixture into reserved dry ingredients and scrape batter over apples, spreading evenly. Evenly drizzle 1/2 cup cream over batter.
Place cake on a foil-lined rimmed baking sheet and bake until center is firm to the touch and a cake tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 35–45 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool in pan 15 minutes. Run a paring knife around the sides of cake to loosen, then remove the sides of pan and invert cake onto rack. Carefully remove pan and peel away parchment (apples might stick, so work slowly). Let cool completely.
Slice cake into wedges and serve drizzled with more cream.
Cake can be baked 1 day ahead. Store tightly covered at room temperature. To revive apples, reheat cake slightly in a microwave and brush top with maple syrup.

Giant Chocolate Caramel Cookie Bars 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup heavy cream
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces
3/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
1 3/4 cups sugar
1 pound milk, semisweet, and/or bittersweet chocolate (preferably 40–60% cacao), chopped
2 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon coconut or other neutral vegetable oil
A candy thermometer

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 13x9 inch baking pan, line bottom and sides with parchment paper, and butter parchment.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat 1 cup butter in a large bowl until creamy. Add sugar and beat, scraping bowl occasionally, until incorporated. Beat in salt, then vanilla. Reduce mixer speed to low and gradually beat in flour, scraping bowl occasionally, until dough just starts to form and large pieces of flour remain.
Press dough into prepared pan in an even layer. Poke holes all over with a fork. Bake cookie until golden brown and firm to the touch, 30–35 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack and let cool.
Heat cream, butter, and salt in a heatproof measuring cup or bowl in a microwave until cream is warm and butter is melted, about 45 seconds.
Gently stir sugar and 1/3 cup water in a large saucepan. Heat over medium and cook, brushing down sides of pan with a wet pastry brush if needed and swirling pan gently (do not stir), until sugar is amber-brown, 15–20 minutes. Remove from heat.
Carefully add cream mixture in a steady stream, stirring with a silicone spatula (it will bubble up violently); if it looks like it may boil over, stop adding cream mixture and stir to break up bubbles.
Fit saucepan with candy thermometer and heat over medium. Cook, undisturbed, until mixture reaches 245 degrees F (almost firm-ball stage). Immediately and carefully pour over cookie. Tilt pan to spread caramel evenly. Let sit until set, at least 1 hour and up to overnight.
Heat chocolate in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water (bowl should not touch water), stirring, until melted. Remove from heat and, stirring constantly, add oil. Let cool, stirring occasionally, until chocolate firms slightly, about 10 minutes.
Place a sheet of parchment paper over cake pan. Place cutting board over parchment. Holding pan and board, invert quickly. Lift off pan, then peel off parchment.
Pour one-third of chocolate mixture over cookie; reserve remaining chocolate mixture at room temperature, stirring occasionally. Spread chocolate mixture evenly with an offset spatula until cookie is coated. Chill until set, about 15 minutes.
Using an oiled knife, cut cookie in half lengthwise. Carefully invert bars, caramel side up, and transfer to a wire rack set inside a rimmed baking sheet lined with waxed paper, spacing 2 inch apart.
Slowly pour reserved chocolate mixture over bars; coat tops completely and let run down sides (use an offset spatula to coat sides completely if needed). If you run out of chocolate mixture, carefully lift rack off pan, then remove waxed paper with chocolate drippings. Return rack to pan and pour chocolate drippings over. Create a swoopy texture in chocolate with offset spatula, if desired. Chill until firm, about 45 minutes.
Let sit at room temperature 10 minutes, then slice each bar crosswise into 10–12 pieces.
Cookie bars can be made 3 days ahead; loosely cover and chill.

Pumpkin and Cookie-Butter Sheet Cake With Toasted Meringue 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
3 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for pan
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 1/3 cups canned pumpkin purée
1 cup sour cream
3/4 cup speculoos cookie butter (preferably Biscoff)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups (packed) light brown sugar
4 large eggs
4 large egg whites
1 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
2 tablespoons pepitas (pumpkin seeds)
A 13x9 inch baking pan, preferably light metal

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter baking pan, line with parchment paper, then butter parchment. Dust pan with flour, tapping out excess.
Whisk baking powder, cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger, salt, baking soda, and 3 cups flour in a large bowl. Whisk pumpkin, sour cream, cookie butter, and vanilla in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat brown sugar and 1 cup butter in another large bowl until lightened in color and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating on medium speed after each addition, until combined. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with pumpkin mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Scrape batter into prepared pan; smooth surface.
Bake cake until golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 50–60 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cool, about 2 hours.
Pour enough water into a small saucepan to come 1 inch up sides; bring to a simmer. Whisk egg whites, granulated sugar, vanilla, nutmeg, cinnamon, and salt in a large bowl. Place bowl over simmering water, making sure bottom of bowl does not touch water, and cook, stirring constantly, until whites are hot to the touch and sugar is dissolved, 1–2 minutes. Remove bowl from water. Using electric mixer on high speed, beat egg white mixture until cooled, fluffy, and holds stiff peaks, about 5 minutes.
Spread meringue evenly over cake, creating peaks and valleys with a spatula. Sprinkle pepitas over meringue. If desired, heat with a kitchen torch or broiler, watching carefully and checking every minute, to lightly brown top, about 5 minutes total. Slice into pieces and serve.
Cake, without meringue, can be made 1 day ahead; cover and store at room temperature.

Semolina Cake With Oranges 
2 bay leaves
1/3 cup sugar
Pinch of kosher salt
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, melted, slightly cooled, plus more for pan
1 1/2 cups coarse-grind semolina flour
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 teaspoons finely grated orange zest
1 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup plain whole-milk Greek yogurt
3/4 cup whole milk
3 oranges
Lemon juice (optional)

Bring bay leaves, sugar, salt, and 1/2 cup water to a simmer in a small saucepan, stirring occasionally to dissolve sugar, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in lemon juice. Pluck out bay leaves; let cool.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 9 inch-diameter cake pan. Whisk semolina, sugar, baking powder, orange zest, cardamom, and salt in a medium bowl. Whisk yogurt and milk in a large bowl. Mix in dry ingredients, then 3/4 cup butter. Scrape batter into prepared pan. Bake cake until golden brown and firm, 55–65 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack and let cake cool in pan 10 minutes. Turn a plate over top of pan and invert cake. Using a cake tester or toothpick, poke holes all over cake; gradually pour all but 1/4 cup bay leaf syrup over, letting it soak in. Let sit 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, remove peel and white pith from oranges. Slice into 1/4 inch-thick rounds; remove seeds. Combine in a medium bowl with remaining bay leaf syrup; let sit, tossing occasionally, at least 20 minutes. Taste and add lemon juice as needed.
Serve cake with oranges in syrup.
Cake can be baked 2 days ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.

No-Bake Butterscotch-Coconut Cookies 
3/4 cup butterscotch chips
3/4 cup creamy no-stir peanut butter
1 cup quick-cooking oats
1 1/4 cups unsweetened shredded coconut, divided
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
2 ounces dark chocolate (optional)

Heat butterscotch chips and peanut butter in a medium heatproof bowl set over a medium pot of barely simmering water (bottom of bowl should not touch water), stirring occasionally, or in short bursts in the microwave, stirring in between bursts, until butterscotch is melted and smooth. Add oats, 1 cup coconut, and salt; stir gently to combine.
Spoon mixture by the tablespoonful onto a parchment-lined sheet tray. Gently press balls in the center to flatten. Chill until set, about 10 minutes.
Heat chocolate, if using, in a medium heatproof bowl set over a medium pot of barely simmering water (bottom of bowl should not touch water), stirring occasionally, or in short bursts in the microwave, stirring in between bursts, until chocolate is melted and smooth. Drizzle cooled cookies with chocolate, top with remaining 1/4 cup coconut, and chill until set, about 5 minutes, before serving.
Cookies can be made 5 days ahead. Store in an airtight container and chill.

Chewy Coconut–Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1/2 cup whole wheat flour
1 cup quick-cooking rolled oats
1 cup unsweetened shredded coconut
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 stick (4 ounces) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 large egg, at room temperature, plus 1 egg yolk
1/2 cup semisweet chocolate chips

In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, oats, coconut, baking soda, and salt.
In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar on medium-high speed fluffy and yellow.
Add the vanilla and the eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition for 30 seconds.
Reduce the speed to medium-low and add the flour mixture in three parts, beating for about 10 seconds after each addition. Add the chocolate chips and mix until just combined.
Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes or overnight. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper.
Scoop out portions of dough the size of golf balls, roll them between your palms loosely, and place them 2 inches apart on the baking sheet (you’ll need to bake the cookies in several batches). Bake for 14 minutes, or until the cookies are set around the edges. Halfway through baking, remove the pan from the oven and drop it onto a heat-safe flat surface, such as the open oven door (this deflates the cookies, creating a deliciously chewy center and crisp edges—in other words . . . perfect!). Immediately return the cookies to the oven, rotating the pan 180 degrees, and complete baking, until the center resists light pressure but is still somewhat soft.
Let the cookies cool on the baking sheet for 5 minutes, then transfer them to a wire rack to cool completely. Repeat to make the rest of the cookies.
To store extra dough and make future cookie baking a breeze, roll out balls and freeze them on a cookie sheet. Once they’re set, transfer them to a resealable freezer bag or airtight container and keep them frozen for up to 3 months. Let the dough balls sit out at room temperature for 15 minutes before baking as usual.

Pannelet Cookies with Sweet Potato and Coconut 
1 cup (8 ounces) mashed or puréed baked orange-fleshed yam (see Cooks' Note), such as jewel or garnet
2 cups (6 ounces) unsweetened dried shredded coconut, toasted (see Cooks' Note)
1 1/3 cups (9.3 ounces) sugar
2 large egg whites
3/8 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
1 cup (5 ounces) whole almonds, with or without skin
Sugar or Cardamom Sugar (see below) or turbinado sugar for rolling
Cookie sheets, lined with parchment paper or greased; food processor

In a medium bowl, whisk the yam, toasted coconut, sugar, egg whites, salt, and lemon zest together.
In a food processor, pulse the almonds to an uneven meal ranging in texture from very fine (mostly) to finely chopped. Stir the almonds into the batter. The dough will be very soft and sticky. Chill for at least 1 hour and up to 2 days to allow the coconut to absorb moisture from the yams.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Position racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven. Scoop level tablespoons of the soft dough and roll into balls about 1 1/4 inches. Roll the balls in sugar (or, if using turbinado sugar roll only the top half of each ball in sugar to avoid oversweetening). Place 1 1/2 inches apart on the lined or greased cookie sheets.
Bake for 18 to 24 minutes, until the cookies are slightly crusty on the surface (though still very tender and moist inside) and deep golden brown on the bottom. Rotate the pans from top to bottom and from front to back halfway through the baking time to ensure even baking. For lined pans, set the pans or just the liners on racks to cool; for unlined pans, use a metal spatula to transfer the cookies to racks. Cool the cookies completely before storing. May be kept in an airtight container for up to 4 or 5 days.
Cardamom Pannelets: Omit the lemon zest. Add 1 1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom, 2 teaspoons grated orange zest, and 2 teaspoons orange flower water to the yam mixture.
Masala Pannelets: A little Spanish/Asian fusion cookie and very good. Omit the lemon zest. Add 2 teaspoons garam masala to the yam mixture. Roll in plain sugar or cinnamon sugar.

Soft Oatmeal Cookies 
1/4 cup golden raisins
1/4 cup dark sultanas or golden raisins
1/4 cup dried currants
1 1/4 sticks (10 tablespoons) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 cup packed light brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Large pinch of kosher salt
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups rolled oats
A stand or handheld electric mixer
Parchment paper

Combine the raisins, sultanas, and currants in a bowl, add enough water to cover, and let them soak in the fridge for at least 5 hours or overnight. Drain and discard the water.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. line a large cookie sheet or baking sheet with parchment paper.
Put the butter and sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. (You can use a handheld electric mixer instead, if you fancy.) Mix on high speed until the mixture is light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. You’ll occasionally need to scrape down the butter and sugar that clings to the sides. Crack in one egg and beat for 30 seconds, then add the other egg and beat for 30 seconds more.
Sift the flour, baking soda, cinnamon, and salt into a medium bowl and stir well. add to the egg mixture, along with the vanilla extract, scrape down the sides of the bowl, and mix at medium speed just until the ingredients are well mixed and the flour is evenly distributed. add the oats, raisins, sultanas, and currants and mix just until they’re evenly distributed. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and pop it in the fridge to chill, at least an hour.
Use your hands to divide the dough into 16 equal balls (about 2 1/2 tablespoons each) and place half on the lined sheet, leaving about 2 inches between them. Bake for about 20 minutes, rotating the pan after about 10 minutes, just until they go golden brown all over and firm at the edges and no longer feel sticky or gooey when you touch one with your finger. Let the cookies cool on a rack as you bake the second batch.
Eat the cookies slightly warm, when they’re cakey, or when they’ve cooled completely.

Fancy Dirt Cake 
1 batch chocolate shortbread cookies
1 quart whole milk
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
4 large eggs
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup cornstarch
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup unsalted butter (2 sticks), room temperature, divided
12 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup heavy cream
Gummy worms and flowers (for decorating)
A 3.5-quart (or 8-inch) clean plastic or terra cotta flower pot or trifle bowl

Pulse cookies in a food processor until coarse crumbs form (or place in a plastic bag and pound with a rolling pin); set aside.
Pour milk into a medium saucepan; scrape in vanilla seeds and add pod. Heat over medium until just before boiling.
Whisk eggs, sugar, cornstarch, and salt in a large bowl. Whisking constantly, pour half of milk mixture into egg mixture. (Putting a wet towel underneath bowl will help stabilize it.) Add egg and milk mixture to remaining milk mixture in saucepan. Cook over medium heat, whisking constantly, until custard is thick and bubbles just a bit, about 7 minutes, then continue to cook 1 minute more.
Strain custard through a fine-mesh sieve into a clean bowl; discard vanilla pod. Add 1/4 cup butter and whisk to combine. Cover with plastic wrap, pressing directly on surface of custard, and chill until cold, about 3 hours.
Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat cream cheese and remaining 3/4 cup butter in a large bowl until smooth. Add chilled custard and beat until combined.
Using electric mixer on medium-high speed, whip cream in a medium bowl until medium peaks form. Using a rubber spatula, gently fold whipped cream into custard to combine.
Layer custard and cookie crumbs alternately in flower pot, inserting gummy worms at random, ending with crumbs. Stick a flower or two into cake to decorate, adding more worms on top of  inchsoil inch if desired.
Custard can be made 1 day ahead; keep chilled.

Vanilla-Buttermilk Cake With Raspberries and Orange Cream-Cheese Frosting 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups cake flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 3/4 cups granulated sugar, divided
4 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup buttermilk
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
2 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, chilled
10 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon finely grated orange zest
1 tablespoon fresh orange juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup powdered sugar, sifted
6 ounces raspberries, divided
Edible flowers (for garnish; optional)
A 10-inch round cake pan

Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat cake pan with nonstick spray and line bottom with parchment paper. Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a medium bowl; set aside.
Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat butter and 1 1/2 cups granulated sugar in a large bowl, scraping down sides of bowl as needed, until light and creamy, about 5 minutes. Add egg yolks in 2 additions, scraping down bowl after each. Beat in vanilla.
Reduce mixer speed to low, then add dry ingredients in 2 additions alternately with buttermilk in 2 additions, scraping down sides of bowl as needed.
Using electric mixer on medium speed, beat egg whites in another large bowl until soft peaks form, 2–3 minutes. Slowly add remaining 1/4 cup granulated sugar and continue to beat until stiff, glossy peaks form, about 3 minutes more. Fold half of the egg whites into flour mixture, then gently fold in remaining egg whites.
Scrape batter into prepared pan; smooth surface. Bake, rotating pan halfway through and covering with foil during the last 15 minutes of baking, until golden brown, firm to the touch, and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 45–50 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool.
Combine granulated sugar and 1/4 cup water in a medium saucepan. Scrape in vanilla seeds, add pod, and stir to combine. Bring to a boil, cover, and steep at least 15 minutes. Set aside to cool. Discard pod before using.
Using electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat cream cheese and butter in a large bowl until smooth, about 1 minute. Beat in orange zest, orange juice, and vanilla. Reduce mixer speed to medium and beat in powdered sugar, scraping down bowl as needed, until light and fluffy, 2–3 minutes.
Run a knife around sides of cooled cake and invert onto a wire rack; remove parchment.
Spread 1 Tbsp. frosting in the center of a platter. Place cake, top side down, in the center. Using a pastry brush, brush 3 Tbsp. vanilla syrup over top of cake; reserve remaining syrup for another use. Spread 1 cup frosting evenly over top and sides to create a crumb coat. Chill 30 minutes to let frosting set. Frost top and sides, swirling decoratively; reserve remaining frosting for another use.
Chill at least 30 minutes or up to overnight to let frosting set. Before serving, top cake with 3 oz. raspberries and edible flowers, if using. Serve remaining 3 oz. raspberries alongside.
Cake can be made 3 days ahead; wrap tightly in plastic and chill, or freeze up to 2 weeks. Syrup can be made 5 days ahead; store in an airtight container and chill. Frosting can be made 3 days ahead; cover with plastic wrap, pressing directly on surface, and chill. Bring to room temperature before using.

Almond-Apricot Food Processor Cake 
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, plus more for pan
2 1/2 cups blanched sliced almonds (about 10 ounces), divided
1 pound apricots, divided
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/2 cups plus 2 tablespoons sugar, divided
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup all-purpose flour (regular or gluten-free)
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon amaretto (optional)
2 cups heavy cream
A 9-inch cake pan (preferably light-colored metal)

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter cake pan, then line bottom with parchment paper. Butter parchment, then sprinkle evenly with 1/4 cup almonds.
Pit and coarsely chop 6 oz. apricots. Pulse salt, 1 1/2 cups sugar, and remaining 2 1/4 cups almonds in a food processor until finely ground. Add eggs, vanilla, 6 Tbsp. butter, and half of the chopped apricots; process until very smooth. Add flour and baking powder; pulse until combined, then fold in remaining chopped apricots. Transfer to prepared pan.
Bake cake until golden brown and the center no longer jiggles when shaken, 60–70 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool completely.
Meanwhile, pit and slice remaining 10 oz. apricots. Toss apricots, amaretto, if using, and remaining 2 Tbsp. sugar in a medium bowl. Let sit at least 10 minutes or up to 1 hour. Using a whisk or an electric mixer on medium-high speed, whip cream to soft peaks in a large bowl.
Run a knife around edges of cooled cake and invert onto a platter.
Serve with macerated apricots and whipped cream alongside.
Cake can be baked 3 days ahead. Cover and chill. Let come to room temperature before serving.

Double-Layer Vanilla-Buttermilk Cake With Raspberries and Orange Cream-Cheese Frosting 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
4 cups cake flour, divided
2 teaspoons baking powder, divided
1 teaspoon baking soda, divided
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt, divided
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, divided
3 1/2 cups granulated sugar, divided
8 large eggs, separated
2 teaspoons vanilla extract, divided
2 cups buttermilk, divided
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
4 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, chilled
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 teaspoons finely grated orange zest
2 tablespoons fresh orange juice
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar, sifted
15 ounces raspberries, divided
Edible flowers (for garnish; optional)
2 (10-inch) round cake pans

Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat cake pans with nonstick spray and line bottoms with parchment paper. Whisk 2 cups flour, 1 tsp. baking powder, 1/2 tsp. baking soda, and 1/4 tsp. salt in a medium bowl; set aside.
Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat 3/4 cup butter and 1 1/2 cups granulated sugar in a large bowl, scraping down sides of bowl as needed, until light and creamy, about 5 minutes. Add 4 egg yolks in 2 additions, scraping down bowl after each. Beat in 1 tsp. vanilla.
Reduce mixer speed to low, then add dry ingredients in 2 additions alternately with 1 cup buttermilk in 2 additions, scraping down sides of bowl as needed.
Using electric mixer on medium speed, beat 4 egg whites in another large bowl until soft peaks form, 2–3 minutes. Slowly add 1/4 cup granulated sugar and continue to beat until stiff, glossy peaks form, about 3 minutes more. Fold half of the egg whites into flour mixture, then gently fold in remaining egg whites.
Scrape batter into prepared pan; smooth surface. Bake, rotating pan halfway through and covering with foil during the last 15 minutes of baking, until golden brown, firm to the touch, and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 45–50 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool.
Repeat steps with second prepared pan and remaining cake ingredients to bake the second layer.
Combine granulated sugar and 1/4 cup water in a medium saucepan. Scrape in vanilla seeds, add pod, and stir to combine. Bring to a boil, cover, and steep at least 15 minutes. Set aside to cool. Discard pod before using.
Using electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat cream cheese and butter in a large bowl until smooth, about 1 minute. Beat in orange zest, orange juice, and vanilla. Reduce mixer speed to medium and beat in powdered sugar, scraping down bowl as needed, until light and fluffy, 2–3 minutes.
Spread 1 Tbsp. frosting in the center of a platter. Place 1 cake layer, top side down, in the center. Using a pastry brush, brush 3 Tbsp. vanilla syrup over top of cake. Using an offset spatula, spread 1 cup frosting evenly over top. Arrange 6 oz. raspberries in a ring around perimeter of cake, pressing to adhere. Fill interior of ring with 6 oz. raspberries. Spread 1 cup frosting over raspberries inside of ring (do not frost raspberries at the perimeter).
Carefully place second cake layer, top side down, on frosted raspberries, gently pressing down to secure. Brush 3 Tbsp. syrup over top of cake with pastry brush. Spread 2 1/2 cups frosting evenly over top and sides, carefully covering raspberries. Chill at least 30 minutes to let frosting set.
Remove cake from refrigerator. Frost top and sides, swirling decoratively, making sure to cover bottom of platter; reserve remaining frosting for another use. Chill at least 30 minutes or up to overnight to let frosting set. Before serving, top cake with remaining 3 oz. raspberries and edible flowers, if using.
Cake can be made 3 days ahead; wrap tightly in plastic and chill, or freeze up to 2 weeks. Syrup can be made 5 days ahead; store in an airtight container and chill. Frosting can be made 3 days ahead; cover with plastic wrap, pressing directly on surface, and chill. Bring to room temperature before using.

Skillet Corn Cake with Stewed Cherries 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons yellow cornmeal
2 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
2/3 cup milk
1/2 cup olive oil
2 teaspoons grated lemon zest
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 (10-oz) bags frozen pitted cherries
1/4 cup freshly squeezed lemon juice

Place a 10-inch cast-iron skillet in the oven and preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
In a medium bowl, sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Stir in the cornmeal.
In a separate medium bowl, whisk together the eggs, egg yolk, milk, olive oil, and lemon zest until frothy. Add 3/4 cup of the sugar, and whisk to combine. Pour the wet ingredients over the dry ingredients and mix just until the batter is smooth.
Swirl the butter in the hot cast-iron skillet until it has melted, and then pour the batter into the skillet. Return the skillet to the oven and cook until the center is set, about 25 minutes.
While the cake is baking, set a 10-inch skillet over high heat, and add the cherries, lemon juice, and remaining 3/4 cup sugar. Cook until the cherries have released most of their juice, 10 to 12 minutes. Remove from the heat and set aside until ready to use.
Allow the cake to cool in the skillet for 5 minutes. Then slice it into wedges and serve with the stewed cherries spooned over the top.

Lemon-Blueberry Poke Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
2 tablespoons finely grated lemon zest
1 3/4 cups sugar
2 large eggs, room temperature
1/3 cup vegetable oil
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup plain whole milk yogurt
5 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup blueberries
1 teaspoon unflavored powdered gelatin
3/4 cup powdered sugar
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
2 tablespoons blueberries
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
A 9x5 inch loaf pan (preferably metal)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line loaf pan with parchment paper, leaving an overhang on the long sides, and lightly coat with nonstick spray.
Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl. Whisk lemon zest into sugar in a large bowl until very fragrant, about 1 minute. Add eggs, oil, and vanilla and whisk until light in color and slightly thickened, about 3 minutes. Whisk in half of the dry ingredients, then whisk in yogurt. Whisk in remaining dry ingredients. Add lemon juice and whisk to combine. Scrape batter into prepared pan and smooth top.
Bake cake, rotating pan halfway through, until top is golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 55–60 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cool, about 2 hours.
Bring sugar and 1 cup water to a boil in a medium saucepan. Add blueberries, then reduce to a simmer. Smash blueberries with the back of a spoon and continue to simmer 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, sprinkle gelatin over 1/3 cup cold water in a small bowl; let sit 10 minutes to soften.
Strain blueberry mixture through a fine-mesh sieve into a medium bowl, pressing blueberries with the back of spoon to release juices. Whisk about 1/3 cup blueberry syrup into gelatin mixture, stirring to dissolve, then pour gelatin mixture over remaining blueberry syrup and stir to combine. Chill at least 1 1/2 hours.
Run a knife around sides of cooled cake to loosen. Using parchment overhang, transfer cake to a baking sheet or cutting board. Starting at 1 end of cake, use a 1/8 inch dowel or the thin handle of a wooden spoon to poke holes in rows spaced about 3/4 inch apart, alternating between 2 and 3 holes per row (you should have about 11 rows of holes).
Transfer chilled blueberry filling to a pastry bag, turkey baster, or squeeze bottle. Carefully squeeze filling into holes.
Whisk powdered sugar, lemon juice, and 1 Tbsp. water in a medium bowl. Transfer cake to a wire rack set inside a rimmed baking sheet. Spread glaze over cake with a spatula, covering the holes. Toss blueberries in glaze bowl to coat, then sprinkle blueberries and lemon zest over cake. Chill until filling and glaze are set, about 1 hour.
Lemon cake can be made 1 day ahead. Cake can be baked, filled, and glazed 3 days ahead; chill in an airtight container.

Crispy Peanut Butter Snack Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 cups creamy, no-stir peanut butter
1/2 cup honey
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons warmed virgin coconut oil, divided
5 cups crispy rice cereal
2 cups Chex cereal
1 1/2 cups salted mini pretzels, lightly crushed
1 cup potato chips, lightly crushed
1 cup roasted, salted peanuts
6 ounces dark chocolate
An 8-cup Bundt pan

Line Bundt pan with plastic wrap, leaving a few inches of overhang; coat with nonstick spray.
Whisk peanut butter, honey, vanilla, and 1/2 cup coconut oil in a large bowl until combined. Using a spatula, gently fold in cereals, pretzels, potato chips, and peanuts. Transfer mixture to prepared pan, spreading evenly and pressing firmly into pan. Chill until cake is set, at least 1 hour.
When ready to serve, melt chocolate and remaining 2 Tbsp. coconut oil in a medium heatproof bowl set over a medium pot of barely simmering water, stirring occasionally, or melt in a microwave in short bursts, stirring between bursts, until chocolate is smooth.
Using plastic overhang, lift cake from pan, then invert onto a platter. Drizzle cooled cake with melted chocolate, then chill to set before serving, about 10 minutes.
Cake can be made 3 days ahead. Wrap in plastic and chill.

BA's Best Carrot Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/2 cup golden raisins (optional)
3 tablespoons dark rum (optional)
1 cup chopped walnuts
1 pound carrots, peeled, coarsely grated
1 cup buttermilk, room temperature
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
4 large eggs, room temperature
1 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup vegetable oil
12 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Generous pinch of kosher salt
4 cups powdered sugar
Candied Carrot Coins

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat two 9 inch-diameter cake pans with nonstick spray. Line bottoms with parchment paper rounds; lightly coat rounds with nonstick spray. If using raisins and rum, heat together in a small saucepan over low just until warm, about 2 minutes. Remove from heat and let sit until liquid is absorbed and raisins are plump, 15–20 minutes.
Meanwhile, toast walnuts on a rimmed baking sheet, tossing once, until golden brown, 8–10 minutes; let cool. Combine carrots and buttermilk in a medium bowl.
Whisk flour, cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, baking powder, salt, and baking soda in a large bowl. Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat eggs, granulated sugar, brown sugar, and vanilla extract until pale and thick, about 4 minutes. Reduce speed to medium-low and gradually stream in oil. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with carrot mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients; mix until smooth. Fold in raisins, if using, and walnuts with a rubber spatula. Scrape batter into prepared pans.
Bake cakes, rotating pans halfway through, until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 35–45 minutes. Transfer pans to a wire rack and let cakes cool 10 minutes. Run a knife around sides of cakes and invert onto wire rack; remove parchment. Let cool completely.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat cream cheese and butter in a medium bowl until smooth, about 1 minute. Beat in vanilla extract and salt. Reduce speed to low and gradually mix in powdered sugar. Increase speed to high and beat frosting until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes.
Place 1 cake, domed side down, on a platter. Spread 3/4 cup frosting evenly over top. Place remaining cake, domed side down, on top. Spread top and sides with 1 1/4 cups frosting and chill 30 minutes to let frosting set. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides, swirling decoratively. Top with Candied Carrot Coins, if desired.

Cherry-Cornmeal Upside-Down Cake 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, divided
1/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
2 teaspoons balsamic vinegar
3 cups whole pitted fresh Bing cherries or other dark sweet cherries (about 21 ounces whole unpitted cherries)
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/4 cup yellow cornmeal (preferably stone-ground medium grind)
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs, separated
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup whole milk
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar

Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Combine 1/4 cup butter with brown sugar and vinegar in 10- to 11-inch ovenproof skillet with 2-inch-high sides. Stir over medium heat until butter melts and sugar dissolves, about 2 minutes. Increase heat to high; add cherries and bring to boil. Remove from heat.
Whisk flour, cornmeal, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat 1/2 cup butter in large bowl. Add sugar; beat until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in egg yolks and vanilla. Add flour mixture alternately with milk in 2 additions each, beating just until blended and occasionally scraping down sides of bowl. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in another medium bowl until foamy. Add cream of tartar and beat until whites are stiff but not dry. Using rubber spatula, fold 1/4 of whites into batter to lighten slightly. Fold in remaining whites in 3 additions (batter will be thick). Spoon batter over cherries in skillet, then spread evenly with offset spatula to cover cherries.
Bake cake until top is golden brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool in skillet on rack 5 minutes. Run spatula around edges of cake to loosen. Place large serving platter upside down atop skillet. Using pot holders or oven mitts, firmly hold platter and skillet together and invert. Leave skillet atop cake 5 minutes. Remove skillet. If necessary, rearrange any cherries that may have become dislodged. Let cake cool at least 45 minutes. Cut cake into wedges and serve slightly warm or at room temperature.

Vanilla-Buttermilk Sheet Cake with Raspberries and Orange Cream-Cheese Frosting 
2 cups cake flour, plus more for pan
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 3/4 cups granulated sugar, divided
4 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup buttermilk
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
1 (8-ounce) package cream cheese, chilled
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 teaspoon finely grated orange zest
1 1/2 teaspoons fresh orange juice
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
6 Tbsp. powdered sugar, sifted
4 ounces raspberries
Edible flowers (for garnish; optional)

Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Flour a 13x9 inch pan, tapping out excess. Whisk baking powder, baking soda, salt, and remaining 2 cups flour in a medium bowl; set aside.
Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat butter and 1 1/2 cups granulated sugar in a large bowl, scraping down sides of bowl as needed, until light and creamy, about 5 minutes. Add egg yolks in 2 additions, scraping down bowl after each. Beat in vanilla.
Reduce mixer speed to low, then add dry ingredients in 2 additions alternately with buttermilk in 2 additions, scraping down sides of bowl as needed.
Using electric mixer on medium speed, beat egg whites in another large bowl until soft peaks form, 2–3 minutes. Slowly add remaining 1/4 cup granulated sugar and continue to beat until stiff, glossy peaks form, about 3 minutes more. Fold half of the egg whites into flour mixture, then gently fold in remaining egg whites.
Scrape batter into prepared pan; smooth surface. Bake, rotating pan halfway through and covering with foil during the last 15 minutes of baking, until golden brown, firm to the touch, and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 35–40 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool.
Combine granulated sugar and 1/4 cup water in a medium saucepan. Scrape in vanilla seeds, add pod, and stir to combine. Bring to a boil, cover, and steep at least 15 minutes. Set aside to cool. Discard pod before using.
Using electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat cream cheese and butter in a large bowl until smooth, about 1 minute. Beat in orange zest, orange juice, and vanilla. Reduce mixer speed to low and beat in powdered sugar, scraping down bowl as needed, until light and fluffy, 2–3 minutes.
Using a pastry brush, brush top of cooled cake with 2 Tbsp. vanilla syrup; reserve remaining syrup for another use. Spread frosting over top of cake, swirling decoratively. Top with raspberries and edible flowers, if using.
Cake can be made 3 days ahead; wrap tightly in plastic and chill, or freeze up to 2 weeks. Syrup can be made 5 days ahead; store in an airtight container and chill. Frosting can be made 3 days ahead; cover with plastic wrap, pressing directly on surface, and chill. Bring to room temperature before using.

Spiced Zucchini Bread 
3 eggs
3/4 cup vegetable oil
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 cups grated unpeeled zucchini
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 cup chopped lightly toasted walnuts or pecans
Cream cheese, at room temperature, for serving (optional)

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F, and grease two 8x4×2 1/2-inch loaf pans.
In the bowl of an electric mixer, beat the eggs until foamy. Add the vegetable oil, sugar, zucchini, and vanilla extract and mix well. Add the flour, cinnamon, baking soda, salt, and baking powder, and mix until well blended. Stir in the nuts. Divide the batter evenly between the prepared loaf pans, and tap them gently on the counter to release any air bubbles.
Bake until the loaves have risen and are golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 55–60 minutes. Allow the bread to cool in the pans for 5 minutes; then turn the loaves out onto wire racks to cool.
Serve the bread warm, sliced and spread with cream cheese if desired.

3-Ingredient Peanut Butter Cookies 
1 large egg
1 cup creamy peanut butter
1 cup sugar
Flaky sea salt (optional)

Arrange racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper.
Beat egg with a whisk in a medium bowl. Add peanut butter and sugar and whisk until fully incorporated and smooth. Drop mounds of dough by the tablespoonful onto prepared baking sheets, spacing about 2 inch apart. Lightly press tops of cookies with tines of a fork, making a crosshatch pattern. Sprinkle with salt, if using. Bake cookies, rotating trays halfway through, until golden brown, 10–12 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack and let cool slightly.
Cookies can be baked 3 days ahead. Store in an airtight container at room temperature.

Salted Caramel  inchDing Dong inch Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder
4 ounces semisweet or bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup hot strong coffee
3/4 cup buttermilk
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups cake flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon kosher salt
2 cups sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs
9 ounces semisweet or bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1 1/8 teaspoons kosher salt
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups heavy cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/4 teaspoons unflavored gelatin
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy cream
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
Flaky sea salt (such as Maldon)
Two 9 inch-diameter cake pans with 2 inch-high sides; a 9 inch-diameter springform pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat cake pans with nonstick spray. Line bottom of pans with parchment-paper rounds; coat paper. Place cocoa powder and chocolate in a medium metal bowl. Pour hot coffee over. Let stand for 1 minute. Stir until smooth. Stir in buttermilk and vanilla; set aside.
Whisk cake flour and next 3 ingredients in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend between additions and occasionally scraping down sides and bottom of bowl. Beat until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with chocolate mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Divide batter evenly between pans; smooth tops.
Bake cakes until a tester inserted into the centers comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Transfer to wire racks; let cakes cool in pans for 10 minutes (cakes will deflate slightly). Run a knife around pans to loosen cakes; invert cakes onto racks. Peel off paper and let cakes cool completely. Turn cakes over.
If needed, use a long serrated knife to cut off bumps or trim dome from top of each cake to create a flat, even surface.
Place chocolate and salt in a medium bowl. Stir sugar and 1/4 cup water in a medium deep saucepan over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and cook without stirring, occasionally swirling pan and brushing down sides with a wet pastry brush, until sugar is deep amber, about 9 minutes. Remove from heat and gradually add cream (mixture will bubble vigorously). Stir over medium heat until caramel bits dissolve. Pour over chocolate in bowl. Add vanilla; stir until mixture is smooth. Let cool slightly.
Place 1 cake layer in springform pan. Pour 1 cup ganache over. Chill until set, about 30 minutes. Cover remaining ganache and let stand at room temperature.
Place 2 tablespoons cold water in a small heatproof glass or metal bowl. Sprinkle gelatin over; let stand until gelatin softens, about 10 minutes.
Pour water to a depth of 1/2 inch into a small skillet set over medium heat. Transfer bowl with gelatin to skillet; stir until gelatin dissolves, about 2 minutes. Remove bowl from skillet. Set aside.
Place cream and powdered sugar in a large bowl. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean. Using an electric mixer, beat cream until soft peaks form. Add gelatin; beat filling until firm peaks form.
Spoon filling over chilled ganache on cake layer in pan; smooth top. Gently place second cake layer on top. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and chill until cream layer is set, at least 6 hours or overnight.
Remove sides from springform pan. Using a knife or offset spatula, scrape off any filling that may have leaked out from between cakes to form smooth sides. Transfer cake to a wire rack set inside a rimmed baking sheet.
Rewarm remaining ganache until just pourable. (Microwave in a microwave-safe bowl, or set a metal bowl over a large saucepan of simmering water until just warm, not hot.) Pour ganache over cake, tilting cake as needed to allow ganache to drip down sides and using an offset spatula to help spread ganache, if needed, to cover sides of cake. Chill until ganache is set, about 1 hour. DO AHEAD: Cake can be made 2 days ahead. Cover with a cake dome; chill. Let stand at room temperature for 1 hour before serving.
Sprinkle cake with flaky sea salt.

Toasted-Flour Sablés 
2 cups all-purpose flour
3 hard-boiled egg yolks, pressed through a fine-mesh sieve
1 teaspoon kosher salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup sugar

Place a rack in middle of oven and preheat to 450 degrees F. Sprinkle flour evenly over a rimmed baking sheet and toast, stirring often once top layer of flour browns, until all flour is golden, 10–15 minutes (flour will burn quickly, so check often). Let cool, then sift into a medium bowl and whisk in egg yolks and salt.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat butter and sugar in a medium bowl, until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture plus 2 Tbsp. water; mix just until combined (mixture will look crumbly but will hold together when pinched). Transfer dough to a sheet of parchment paper and form into a 12 inch log. Tightly roll up in parchment, then wrap tightly in plastic. Chill until firm, at least 4 hours.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Slice a little dough from both ends of log to square off; unwrap and slice dough 1/4 inch thick. Place on rounds on parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing about 1 inch apart. Bake cookies, rotating baking sheets halfway through, until edges are golden but centers are still pale, 10–12 minutes. Let cookies cool on baking sheets 5 minutes, then transfer to wire racks and let cool completely.
Dough can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled, or freeze up to 1 month.

Strawberry Shortcake with Thyme and Whipped Cream 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
8 large eggs
1 3/4 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 tablespoon thyme leaves
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour, divided
1/2 cup sugar
6 thyme sprigs
1 pound strawberries, hulled, halved or quartered if large, divided
2 cups heavy cream
1/2 cup sour cream
Baby strawberries (optional) and thyme sprigs (for serving)
2 (8-inch) springform pans, preferably light-colored

Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper, leaving sides unlined and ungreased. Melt butter in a small pot over medium heat; set aside.
Whisk eggs, sugar, and salt in the bowl of a stand mixer. Place stand mixer bowl over a pot of barely simmering water and cook, whisking constantly, until mixture is warm to the touch and sugar is dissolved (use your fingers to check). Transfer bowl to stand mixer and beat on medium-high speed with the whisk attachment until mixture is cooled and tripled in volume, about 5 minutes (when you lift the whisk, mixture should fall back on itself in thick ribbons).
Transfer melted butter to a medium bowl. Add thyme, vanilla, and 1 cup egg mixture to butter and whisk to combine.
Transfer remaining egg mixture to a large wide bowl. Sift half of the flour over egg mixture. Using a rubber spatula or large balloon whisk, fold flour gently into egg mixture until almost fully incorporated. Repeat with the remaining flour, then fold in butter mixture with spatula just until incorporated. Gently divide batter between prepared pans; smooth surface.
Bake cakes until tops are deep golden and centers spring back when pressed lightly, 25–30 minutes. Immediately run a knife around edges and remove springform. Transfer pans to a wire rack and let cakes cool completely.
Bring sugar, thyme, and 1/2 cup water to a boil in a small saucepan. Let sit until cool, about 30 minutes. Strain through a fine-mesh sieve into a measuring cup and chill until ready to use.
Using a serrated knife, trim top of each cake to make them flat. Brush tops with 2–3 Tbsp. syrup per cake, depending on how concentrated you'd like the thyme flavor to be.
Toss 10 oz. strawberries with1 Tbsp. syrup in a medium bowl and let sit at least 10 minutes or up to 1 hour.
Meanwhile, whip heavy cream to soft peaks in the bowl of stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment. Add sour cream and 2 Tbsp. syrup and whip to stiff peaks.
Transfer 1 cake layer to a platter and top with syrup-macerated strawberries. Top with half of the whipped cream, then place second cake layer gently on the first. Top with remaining whipped cream. Chill to set, at least 1 hour. Just before serving, arrange remaining 6 oz. strawberries, baby strawberries, if using, and thyme over cake.
Cakes can be baked and syrup-soaked, but not assembled, 2 days ahead; wrap layers separately in plastic and chill. Thyme syrup can be made 5 days ahead; chill in a resealable container. Assembled cake can be made 12 hours ahead; chill.

Vanilla-Buttermilk Wedding Cake With Raspberries and Orange Cream-Cheese Frosting 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
6 cups cake flour, divided
1 tablespoon baking powder, divided
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda, divided
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt, divided
2 1/4 cups (4 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, softened, divided
5 1/4 cups granulated sugar, divided
12 large eggs, separated
1 tablespoon vanilla extract, divided
3 cups buttermilk, divided
1/2 cup granulated sugar
2 vanilla beans, split lengthwise
8 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, chilled, divided
2 1/2 cups (5 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, divided
4 teaspoons finely grated orange zest, divided
1/4 cup fresh orange juice, divided
4 teaspoons vanilla extract, divided
3 cups powdered sugar, sifted, divided
4 (6-ounce) containers raspberries, divided
Edible flowers (for garnish; optional)
2 (10-inch) round cake pans; 2 (6-inch) round cake pans

Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat 10 inch cake pans with nonstick spray and line bottoms with parchment paper. Whisk 2 cups flour, 1 tsp. baking powder, 1/2 tsp. baking soda, and 1/4 tsp. salt in a medium bowl; set aside.
Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat 3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) butter and 1 1/2 cups granulated sugar in a large bowl, scraping down sides of bowl as needed, until light and creamy, about 5 minutes. Add 4 egg yolks in 2 additions, scraping down bowl after each. Beat in 1 tsp. vanilla.
Reduce mixer speed to low, then add dry ingredients in 2 additions alternately with 1 cup buttermilk in 2 additions, scraping down sides of bowl as needed.
Using electric mixer on medium speed, beat 4 egg whites in another large bowl until soft peaks form, 2–3 minutes. Slowly add 1/4 cup granulated sugar and continue to beat until stiff, glossy peaks form, about 3 minutes more. Fold half of the egg whites into flour mixture, then gently fold in remaining egg whites.
Scrape batter into prepared pan; smooth top. Bake cake, rotating pan halfway through and covering with foil during the last 15 minutes of baking, until golden brown, firm to the touch, and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 45–50 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool.
Meanwhile, repeat steps to make a second 10 inch cake.
Lightly coat 6 inch cake pans with nonstick spray and line bottoms with parchment paper. Repeat steps using remaining 2 cups flour, 1 tsp. baking powder, 1/2 tsp. baking soda, 1/4 tsp. salt, 3/4 cup butter, 1 3/4 cups granulated sugar, 4 eggs, 1 tsp. vanilla, and 1 cup buttermilk. Pour 1 1/2 cups batter into each pan; smooth tops. Discard remaining cake batter.
Bake cakes, rotating pans halfway through and covering with foil during the last 15 minutes of baking, until golden brown, firm to the touch, and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 45–50 minutes. Transfer pans to a wire rack and let cakes cool.
Combine granulated sugar and 1/2 cup water in a medium saucepan. Scrape in vanilla seeds, add pods, and stir to combine. Bring to a boil, cover, and steep at least 15 minutes. Set aside to cool. Discard pods before using.
Using electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat 4 packages cream cheese and 1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) butter in a large bowl until smooth, about 1 minute. Beat in 2 tsp. orange zest, 2 Tbsp. orange juice, and 2 tsp. vanilla. Reduce mixer speed to medium and beat in 1 1/2 cups powdered sugar, scraping down sides of bowl as needed, until light and fluffy, 2–3 minutes. Transfer frosting to a large bowl.
Repeat frosting steps with remaining 4 packages cream cheese, 1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) butter, 2 tsp. orange zest, 2 Tbsp. orange juice, and 2 tsp. vanilla. Transfer to bowl with frosting; cover with plastic wrap, pressing directly on surface, and chill until ready to use.
Run a knife around edges of cooled cakes and invert onto wire racks; remove parchment.
Spread 1 Tbsp. frosting in the center of a 10 inch cake board or platter. Place 1 (10 inch) cake, top side down, in the center. Using a pastry brush, brush 3 Tbsp. vanilla syrup over top of cake. Using an offset spatula, spread 1 cup frosting evenly over top. Arrange 6 oz. raspberries in a ring around perimeter of cake, pressing to adhere. Fill interior of ring with 6 oz. raspberries. Spread 1 cup frosting over raspberries inside of ring; do not frost raspberries at the perimeter.
Carefully place second 10 inch cake, top side down, on frosted raspberries, gently pressing down to secure. Brush 3 Tbsp. syrup over top of cake with pastry brush. Spread 2 1/2 cups frosting evenly over top and sides, carefully covering raspberries. Chill at least 30 minutes to let frosting set.
Meanwhile, spread 1 Tbsp. frosting in the center of a 6 inch cake board or removable tart pan bottom. Place 1 (6 inch) cake, top side down, in the center. Brush 2 Tbsp. vanilla syrup over top of cake with pastry brush. Spread 3/4 cup frosting with offset spatula evenly over top. Arrange 3 oz. raspberries in a ring around perimeter of cake, pressing to adhere. Fill interior of ring with 3 oz. raspberries. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over all raspberries with offset spatula to cover.
Carefully place second 6 inch cake, top side down, on frosted raspberries, gently pressing down to secure. Brush 2 Tbsp. syrup over top of cake with pastry brush; reserve remaining syrup for another use. Spread 1 1/2 cups frosting evenly over top and sides of cakie, carefully covering raspberries. Chill at least 30 minutes to let frosting set.
Cakes can now be transported for finishing. To assemble, carefully place 6 inch layer cake (on the board) in the center of the 10 inch cake. Spread 2 cups frosting over top and sides, swirling decoratively, making sure to cover seam between 10 inch cake and bottom cake board; reserve remaining frosting for another use.
Chill at least 30 minutes or up to overnight to let frosting set. Before serving, top cake with remaining 6 oz. raspberries and edible flowers, if using.
Cake is easier to work with when chilled overnight. Cake can be made 3 days ahead; wrap tightly in plastic and chilled, or frozen up to 2 weeks. Syrup can be made 5 days ahead; store in an airtight container and chill. Frosting can be made 3 days ahead; cover with plastic wrap, pressing directly on surface, and chill. Bring to room temperature before using.

One-Bowl Milk Chocolate Cake with Chocolate-Caramel Frosting 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, plus more for pan
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder, divided
6 ounces high-quality milk chocolate, chopped
3 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 3/4 cups sugar
1 1/4 cups buttermilk
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
9 ounces high-quality milk chocolate, divided
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
3/4 cup heavy cream
1/2 cup store-bought dulce de leche or caramel sauce

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 13x9 inch pan and dust with 2 Tbsp. cocoa powder, tapping out excess.
Melt remaining 1 cup butter in a small saucepan over medium heat. Add chocolate and remaining 1/2 cup cocoa powder; cook, whisking constantly, until smooth. Let cool slightly.
Whisk eggs and vanilla in a large bowl. Add sugar and whisk until smooth, lightened in color, and slightly aerated, about 2 minutes. Stream in buttermilk while whisking, then stream in chocolate mixture while whisking until smooth.
Sift flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt into chocolate mixture. Whisk until batter is mostly smooth (there will be a few small lumps). Transfer to prepared pan.
Bake cake until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 35–40 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool completely.
Slice 2 oz. chocolate into long, thin shards; reserve for decorating. Coarsely chop remaining 7 oz. chocolate and transfer to a medium bowl. Add vanilla and salt.
Heat cream in a small pot over medium until just starting to simmer. Pour over chocolate mixture and let sit 3 minutes. Whisk until chocolate is melted and smooth. Whisk in dulce de leche. Chill until firm, at least 1 hour.
Whisk frosting to lighten and loosen, then use a spatula to spread over cake. If it's too stiff to work with, let it sit out on the counter for a few minutes. Sprinkle with reserved chocolate shards. Cut into thirds lengthwise, then into fifths crosswise (you should have 15 pieces).
Cake can be made 3 days ahead; cover and chill. Bring to room temperature before serving.

Tuscan Almond Cookies (Ricciarelli) 
1 1/4 cups slivered almonds
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
1/2 cup powdered sugar, divided, plus more for dusting
1 large egg white
Pinch of kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Toast almonds on a rimmed baking sheet, tossing once, until golden, 5–8 minutes; let cool.
Pulse almonds, lemon zest, and 1/4 cup powdered sugar in a food processor until finely ground. Whisk egg white and salt in a large bowl to medium peaks. Whisking constantly, gradually add 1/4 cup powdered sugar; whisk until egg white is very stiff but not dry. Fold in almond mixture and vanilla. Drop heaping tablespoonfuls of batter onto a parchment-lined baking sheet; using wet hands, flatten tops and press sides to make rounded diamond shapes. Chill 30 minutes.
Bake ricciarelli until edges are lightly golden and firm and centers are still a little soft, 10–12 minutes; let cool on baking sheet. Dust with powdered sugar.

Double and By Double I Mean Triple Chocolate Cookies 
1/2 cup raw sunflower seeds
8 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped
4 ounces white chocolate, chopped
1 3/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup (packed) light brown sugar
2 large eggs, room temperature
1 cup unsweetened coconut flakes
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1/2 cup white chocolate chips
Flaky sea salt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Toast sunflower seeds on a rimmed baking sheet, stirring halfway through, until golden brown, about 5 minutes. Let cool.
Meanwhile, heat chopped bittersweet chocolate and white chocolate in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water (bowl should not touch water), stirring, until melted. Remove from heat and let sit, stirring occasionally, until cool, 10–15 minutes.
Finely grind sunflower seeds in spice mill. Transfer to a medium bowl and add flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, kosher salt, and baking soda; whisk to combine. Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat butter, granulated sugar, and brown sugar in a large bowl until very light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition before adding the next. Beat until mixture is very light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Reduce speed to low and add melted chocolate mixture, followed by dry ingredients; beat just until combined. Mix in coconut and both chocolate chips with a rubber spatula.
Using a 2 inch cookie scoop or 1/4-cup measuring cup, portion out dough onto parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing at least 2 inch apart (these are large cookies; you probably won’t fit more than 8 per sheet). Flatten cookies slightly with your palm and sprinkle with sea salt. Bake, rotating baking sheets halfway through, until cookies are just barely set around edges but still wet-looking in the center (they will seem underdone, but you don’t want to overbake), 15–20 minutes. Let cool on baking sheets 5 minutes, then transfer to wire racks and let cool completely.
Dough can be made 1 day ahead; cover and chill. Bring to room temperature before portioning. Cookies can be baked 2 days ahead; store airtight at room temperature.

Triple-Ginger Cream Sandwiches 
1 tablespoon ground ginger
1 teaspoon finely grated peeled fresh ginger
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
2 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for surface
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large egg yolks
1/3 cup unsulphured molasses
Pure cane or sanding sugar (for sprinkling)
12 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1/4 cup finely chopped candied ginger
A 2 inch round cutter

Whisk ground ginger, fresh ginger, pepper, cinnamon, salt, baking soda, nutmeg, cloves, and 2 cups flour in a medium bowl; set aside.
Beat brown sugar and butter in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment on medium speed until pale and fluffy, 3–4 minutes. Add egg yolks and molasses and beat until combined. Add dry ingredients and beat on medium-low speed until well combined, about 3 minutes.
Divide dough between 2 pieces of plastic wrap and flatten each into an 8 inch-diameter disk. Wrap each disk in plastic and chill until firm, about 1 hour.
Position racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. On a lightly floured surface, roll out 1 disk of dough to an 1/8 inch thickness. Using 2 inch round cutter, cut out rounds, rerolling scraps once (you should have 36 rounds).
Arrange rounds on 2 parchment-lined baking sheets at least 1/2 inch apart; sprinkle with cane sugar. Bake, rotating sheets halfway through, until cookies are puffed and edges are lightly golden, 8–10 minutes. Transfer sheets to wire racks and let cookies cool. Repeat with remaining dough.
Beat cream cheese, powdered sugar, and candied ginger in the bowl of stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment on medium-high speed until smooth and fluffy, about 2 minutes.
Just before serving, spread about 1 tsp. filling on flat side of half of the cookies. Sandwich with remaining cookies, sugared sides up.
Unfilled cookies can be made up to 1 week ahead; store in an airtight container at room temperature. Filling can be made 3 days ahead; chill in an airtight container. Let filling come to room temperature and fill cookies just before serving.

Coeur à la Crème with Roasted Strawberry Sauce 
2 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
2 ounces fresh goat cheese, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla paste or vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
Pinch of kosher salt
1/3 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
1/2 pound strawberries (about 2 cups), hulled, quartered
2 tablespoons brandy
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla paste or vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
Pinch of kosher salt
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
Finely grated lemon zest (for serving)
2 (4 inch) coeur à la crème molds; cheesecloth

Cut 2 (8x8 inch) squares of cheesecloth, soak with cold water, and wring out. Line each mold with damp cheesecloth and set in a small baking pan.
Whisk cream cheese, goat cheese, vanilla paste, lemon zest, and salt in a medium bowl until smooth. Whisk heavy cream and powdered sugar in another medium bowl until soft peaks form. Fold whipped cream into cheese mixture until well combined. Spoon into prepared molds, fold cheesecloth over, then chill at least 6 hours.
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Mix strawberries, brandy, sugar, vanilla paste, pepper, salt, and 1/4 cup water a small baking dish. Roast, stirring occasionally, until juices are bubbling, about 15 minutes. Let cool slightly, then stir in lemon juice.
To serve, fold back cheesecloth and invert each coeur à la crème onto a small plate. Garnish with lemon zest and serve strawberry sauce alongside.
Coeur à la crème can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled in molds until ready to serve.

Gooey Chocolate Microwave Mug Cake With Caramel Sauce and Peanuts 
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
2 tablespoons heavy cream
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
2 (heaping) tablespoons 3-Ingredient Microwave Caramel Sauce or storebought caramel sauce, divided
Vanilla ice cream (optional; for serving)
1 teaspoon coarsely chopped roasted, salted peanuts
A 12-ounce microwave-safe mug (preferably thin-walled) or deep bowl

Mix flour, sugar, cocoa powder, baking powder, and salt in mug. Add cream, oil, and 3 Tbsp. water and mix until smooth. Using a spoon, make a well in the center; spoon half of the caramel sauce into well. Microwave on high 60 seconds. Carefully remove from microwave. Top with ice cream (if desired), peanuts, and remaining caramel sauce. Serve immediately.

3-Ingredient Brown-Butter Shortbread 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
1/2 cup powdered sugar
2 cups all-purpose flour, sifted
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Melt butter in a small skillet over medium heat and cook, stirring often, until milk solids begin to brown, about 6 minutes (do not burn). Strain through a fine-mesh sieve into a medium bowl. Chill until just firm, about 30 minutes.
Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat brown butter and powdered sugar in a large bowl until pale and creamy, about 2 minutes. Reduce speed to low and gradually beat in flour and salt, scraping down sides of bowl as needed, just to blend (do not overwork dough).
Transfer dough to a sheet of parchment. Form dough into a rectangle. Place second sheet of parchment over dough. Roll out dough to a 8x6 inch rectangle about 1/2 inch thick.
Remove top sheet of parchment. Transfer dough on parchment to a rimmed baking sheet. Using a fork, pierce dough all over, spacing 1 inch apart. Bake shortbread, rotating halfway through, until golden brown and firm to the touch, 55–65 minutes.
Cut shortbread lengthwise into 1 inch strips on baking sheet while still warm. Cut each strip crosswise into thirds. Let cool completely.
Cookies can be made 2 days ahead; cover and store at room temperature.

Sunshine Cake 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled, plus more for pan
1/2 cup all-purpose flour, plus more for pan
2 large eggs
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon almond extract
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 cup sliced almonds
Pearl sugar (for sprinkling; optional)
A 9-inch pie plate (not deep dish) or tart pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 9-inch pie plate.
Whisk eggs, granulated sugar, almond extract, and salt in a large bowl until frothy and pale, about 30 seconds. Add 1/2 cup butter and 1/2 cup flour and stir until incorporated. Pour into prepared pie plate. Top with almonds and pearl sugar, if using.
Bake cake until top is golden brown and a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean, 20–25 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool slightly before serving.
Cake can be made 1 day ahead; store tightly wrapped at room temperature.

Coconut–Key Lime Sheet Cake 
1 1/2 cups unsweetened shredded coconut
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 3/4 cups cake flour, plus more for pan
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/3 cup virgin coconut oil, melted
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/3 cups canned unsweetened coconut milk, divided
1 1/2 cups sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs
1 tablespoon finely grated key lime zest
1/3 cup fresh key lime juice (from about 6 key limes)
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces, room temperature
3 large egg yolks
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon finely grated key lime zest
1/4 cup fresh key lime juice (from about 4 key limes)
1 1/2 cups cold heavy cream
1 teaspoon finely grated key lime zest
1 cup unsweetened coconut flakes

Position rack in middle of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Spread coconut in a single layer on a rimmed baking sheet and toast until golden brown and aromatic, 3–5 minutes. Let cool 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, coat a 13x9 inch pan with nonstick spray. Dust with flour, tapping out any excess.
Whisk toasted coconut, baking powder, salt, and 1 3/4 cups flour in a medium bowl. Mix coconut oil, vanilla, and 2/3 cup coconut milk in another medium bowl.
Cream sugar and butter in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment at medium speed, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl, until pale and fluffy, 3–4 minutes. Add eggs, one at a time, beating to blend after each addition. Reduce mixer speed to low and beat in dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with coconut milk mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Pour batter into prepared pan, smoothing top with a spatula.
Bake cake until top is set and golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 25–30 minutes.
Mix key lime zest, juice, and remaining 2/3 cup coconut milk in a small bowl (it's okay if mixture separates slightly; it will be absorbed by cake). Using a skewer, poke holes every 2 inch into warm cake. Slowly pour key lime zest mixture over cake. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool completely.
Pour water into a medium pot to a depth of 2 inch. Bring to a simmer over medium heat. Place butter in a large bowl.
Whisk egg yolks and sugar in a heatproof medium bowl. Whisk in key lime zest and juice. Set bowl on saucepan, making sure bottom does not touch water. Cook, whisking occasionally, until mixture is thick enough to coat the back of a spoon and an instant-read thermometer registers 175 degrees F, 3–4 minutes.
Strain egg yolk mixture through a fine-mesh sieve over butter, then stir with a rubber spatula until smooth. Place a piece of plastic wrap directly on key lime curd and chill at least 30 minutes.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat cream in a large bowl until stiff peaks form. Gently fold in chilled key lime curd and key lime zest. Spread cream on cooled cake with a spatula, then chill 30 minutes to set cream.
Meanwhile, preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spread coconut flakes in a single layer on rimmed baking sheet and toast, tossing halfway through, until crispy and golden, 5–7 minutes. Let cool.
When ready to serve, sprinkle toasted coconut flakes over cake.
Lime curd can be made 1 week ahead. Store in an airtight container and chill, or freeze up to 4 months.

Creamsicle Macaroons 
2 egg whites
12 ounces (340 g) unsweetened shredded coconut
1 (14-ounce [414-ml]) can full-fat coconut milk
1/4 cup (60 ml) honey
Zest of one orange (about 1/2 tablespoon [7 ml])
1 tablespoon (15 ml) orange juice
2 teaspoons (10 ml) vanilla extract
Pinch salt

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (177 degrees C). Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.
In a medium bowl, beat the egg whites until medium peaks form.
In a large bowl, combine the shredded coconut, coconut milk, honey, orange zest, orange juice, vanilla, and salt.
Fold the egg whites into the coconut mixture.
Using a small ice cream scoop with a lever, or two spoons, drop the mixture onto a cookie sheet, about 2 tablespoons (30 ml) in each.
Bake for 25–30 minutes, or until golden brown on the edges. Allow them to cool before removing from the pan.

Fudgy Gluten-Free Cream Cheese Brownies 
8 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1/4 cup sugar
1 large egg, room temperature
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, plus more for pan
1/4 cup cornstarch
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 tablespoon instant coffee or espresso powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
9 ounces semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 large eggs, room temperature
An 8x8x2 inch baking pan

Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat cream cheese and sugar in a large bowl until smooth. Add egg and vanilla and beat until smooth.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter baking pan and line with 2 overlapping layers of parchment, leaving a 2 inch overhang on all sides. Butter parchment.
Whisk cornstarch, cocoa powder, coffee, and salt in a small bowl.
Combine chocolate and 6 Tbsp. butter in a large heatproof bowl set over a pot of barely simmering water, stirring occasionally, until butter and chocolate are melted and smooth. Remove from heat, then stir in sugar and vanilla. Whisk in eggs, one at a time, then whisk in cornstarch mixture until smooth, about 1 minute.
Transfer batter to prepared pan. Dollop cream cheese mixture over batter, then swirl into batter with a knife or spatula.
Bake brownies until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out with a few moist crumbs attached, about 30 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cool completely. Using parchment overhang, transfer brownies to a cutting board. Cut into 4 pieces lengthwise, then 4 pieces crosswise to make 16 bars.
Brownies can be made 3 days ahead. Store in an airtight container at room temperature.

Rustic Lemon Tart (Torta Della Nonna al Limone) With Pine Nut Lace Cookies 
1 1/2 cups (6 ounces) all-purpose flour, plus more for surface
1 cup (4 ounces) whole-wheat flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/3 cup lemon juice
1 teaspoon grated lemon zest
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/3 cup turbinado sugar
1/3 cup confectioners' sugar
1 large egg
1 large egg yolk
1 3/4 cups heavy cream
Grated zest of 1 lemon (about 1 teaspoon)
1/2 cup sugar, divided
12 large egg yolks
1/3 cup fresh lemon juice
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
5 tablespoons sugar
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
6 tablespoons (1 3/4 ounces) pine nuts, finely chopped
1/2 cup toasted pine nuts, for garnish
1/4 cup candied julienned lemon zest or thinly sliced candied lemon peel
A 10-inch round fluted tart pan with removable bottom

Whisk together 1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour and whole-wheat flour, salt, and baking powder in a medium bowl; set aside.
Simmer lemon juice and zest in a small skillet over medium heat until syrupy and golden, 1-2 minutes, stirring frequently.
Using an electric mixer, beat butter, both sugars, and lemon reduction on medium-high speed until fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add whole egg and yolk and beat until just combined. Reduce speed to low and gradually add flour mixture; beat until just combined.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Transfer dough to a work surface, flatten into a disc, then wrap in plastic and freeze for 10 minutes. Roll dough on a lightly floured surface to a 12 inch round, about 1/4-inch thick. Fit dough into tart pan, pressing it into the fluted sides. If the dough breaks, just press it back together with your fingers. Trim the excess by running a rolling pin over the tart pan. Prick the pastry several times with a fork and freeze tart shell until firm, about 15 minutes. Bake on the middle rack until the tart shell is golden and dry, 30 minutes. Let cool completely.
Reduce oven temperature to 275 degrees F.
Combine cream, lemon zest, and 1/4 cup sugar in a medium saucepan and bring just to a simmer.
Whisk egg yolks and remaining 1/4 cup sugar together in a medium bowl. Gradually whisk in hot cream. Add lemon juice and strain mixture into a heat-proof pitcher or large measuring cup with spout.
Set tart pan on a sturdy baking sheet and pour in filling. Bake until custard is just set when jiggled, about 1 hour (the filling should not start to brown). Cool to room temperature on a wire rack, then refrigerate until completely chilled, at least 4 hours.
Meanwhile make the Pine Nut Lace Cookies: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and line a cookie sheet with parchment.
Using a wooden spoon, stir butter and corn syrup in a medium bowl until smooth. Add sugar and stir to thoroughly combine. Add flour and pine nuts and stir until blended and smooth.
Working in batches, scoop level teaspoons batter onto baking sheet 2 inches apart, allowing room for the cookies to spread. Bake until cookies are golden and lacy, 8–10 minutes. Let cool on baking sheet and then transfer to a plate. Wipe parchment and repeat with remaining batter.
Cut torta into wedges and garnish each slice with toasted pine nuts, candied lemon zest, and Pine Nut Lace Cookies.
Torta can be refrigerated up to 1 day before serving and Pine Nut Lace Cookies can be stored in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 1 day before serving.

3-Ingredient Nutella Brownies 
2 large eggs
1 1/4 cups chocolate-hazelnut spread (such as Nutella)
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly spray an 8x8 inch baking dish with nonstick cooking spray.
Beat eggs on low speed in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment until combined. Add chocolate-hazelnut spread and beat until smooth. Add flour and salt and beat, scraping down sides of bowl as needed, until combined.
Pour into prepared dish; smooth surface with a spatula. Bake brownies until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean, 25–30 minutes. Let cool, then cut into 9 pieces and serve.

French Spiced Bread 
2 tablespoons melted unsalted butter
1/2 cup whole almonds
1/2 cup store-bought or homemade candied orange peel
1/2 cup dried apricots
1/2 cup dried plums
2 cups honey
1 1/4 cups whole milk
2 teaspoons kosher salt
6 (3 inch) cinnamon sticks
3 star anise pods
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon baking powder
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon Reims N.39 spice mix
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 large eggs
2 (9x5 inch) loaf pans

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Grease loaf pans with melted butter.
Toast almonds on a rimmed baking sheet, tossing once or twice, until golden brown and fragrant, 6–8 minutes. Coarsely chop zest, apricots, plums, and toasted almonds. Transfer to a small bowl.
Bring honey, milk, salt, cinnamon, and star anise to a boil in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Meanwhile, whisk flour, baking powder, spice mix, and baking soda in a large bowl.
Strain honey mixture through a fine-mesh sieve into dry ingredients and whisk to combine. Add eggs and whisk until incorporated. Using a spatula, quickly fold in zest mixture.
Divide dough between prepared pans, filling each about three-quarters full. Bake bread until tops are golden brown and a toothpick inserted into the centers comes out clean, 35–40 minutes.
Let bread cool 10 minutes in pan, then carefully remove from pan and transfer to a wire rack.
Bread can be made 5 days ahead. Tightly wrap and store at room temperature, or freeze up to 1 month.

Bûche de Noël 
6 large egg whites
1 1/4 cups sugar
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
Unsweetened cocoa powder (for dusting)
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into 1 inch pieces, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder, plus more for dusting
1/4 cup whole milk
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
3 large eggs, room temperature
3 large egg yolks, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
Cocoa Syrup
Bittersweet Ganache
Mascarpone Filling
1 ounce marzipan (about 2 tablespoons)
2 tablespoons dark unsweetened cocoa powder, preferably Dutch-process
1 ounce bittersweet chocolate, melted

Preheat oven to 225 degrees F. Whisk egg whites, sugar, cream of tartar, and salt in a large heatproof bowl set over a medium saucepan of simmering water (bowl should not touch water) until egg whites are very liquid (mixture will be warm to the touch) and sugar is dissolved (rub between your fingers to check), about 5 minutes. Remove bowl from heat and beat with an electric mixer until stiff, glossy peaks form (bowl will feel cool), about 5 minutes.
Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper and dust very lightly with cocoa powder. Scoop out 1 cup meringue. Dollop heaping teaspoonfuls of meringue onto prepared baking sheet, spacing at least 1 1/2 inch apart.
Lightly dust meringue with more cocoa powder and place a sheet of parchment over top. Use an offset spatula or your hands to flatten meringue into irregularly shaped disks about 1/8 inch thick. Bake until lightly browned and parchment peels away easily, 75–90 minutes (meringue will be soft when it first comes out of the oven but will dry and crisp as it cools).
Meanwhile, with mixer on medium speed, beat butter into remaining meringue, adding a piece at a time and waiting until incorporated before adding more. Beat until mixture is very smooth. (If it looks very loose or curdled, just keep beating; buttercream will come back together.) Add vanilla extract and scrape in vanilla seeds; beat to combine.
Mushrooms and buttercream can be made 2 days ahead. Store mushrooms airtight at room temperature. Cover and chill buttercream; bring to room temperature, then beat until smooth before using.
Increase oven to 400 degrees F. Coat a 26x18 inch rimmed baking sheet with nonstick spray and line with parchment paper, leaving overhang on long sides. Spray parchment. Whisk flour, cornstarch, and ⅓ cup cocoa powder in a small bowl.
Bring milk, butter, oil, vanilla, and salt to a simmer in a small saucepan over medium-low heat. Keep warm over low heat.
Meanwhile, beat eggs and egg yolks with an electric mixer on medium speed until smooth. Increase speed to high; beat until doubled in volume. With motor running, gradually add sugar; beat until very light and fluffy and mixture falls back on itself in a slowly dissolving ribbon (it should be at least quadrupled in volume), about 5 minutes.
Reduce speed to medium and gradually stream in milk mixture. Sift one-third of dry ingredients over top; gently fold in until only a few streaks remain. Working in 2 additions, repeat with remaining dry ingredients, scraping bottom of bowl and using as few strokes as possible to keep eggs from deflating (a few streaks are fine). Scrape batter into prepared baking sheet and gently spread to edges of pan. Tap sheet lightly on counter to pop any large air bubbles.
Bake cake until surface is puffed and springy to the touch, 10–12 minutes.
Let cake cool in pan 2 minutes, then run a knife along short edges to loosen. Invert onto a wire rack and carefully peel away parchment. Using a fine-mesh sieve, dust cake with cocoa powder. Cover with a large kitchen towel. Place another wire rack on top and flip cake over so towel side is underneath. Remove top rack; dust exposed side with cocoa powder. Starting at one of the long sides, gently roll up warm cake inside towel. Let cake cool, seam side down, 30–35 minutes.
Cake can be baked 1 day ahead. Store tightly wrapped in plastic at room temperature.
Carefully unroll towel and cake on a flat surface (cake will curl at the ends and may have a few small cracks but should stay in 1 piece). Position cake so the end that was in innermost part of spiral is closest to you; brush off any excess cocoa.
Using a pastry brush, gently dab cocoa syrup over entire surface of cake; you may not use it all. Dollop bittersweet ganache over top and smooth with an offset spatula to create an even layer.
Dollop mascarpone filling over ganache; carefully spread over surface, trying not to blend with ganache and avoiding last inch of cake along long side farthest from you.
Using towel to lift edge nearest you, reroll cake, keeping towel on exterior. Chill, seam side down, until filling is set, about 30 minutes.
Transfer filled cake to a baking sheet. Set aside 1/2 cup buttercream for attaching branches. Evenly spread remaining buttercream over cake with an offset spatula.
Using a long serrated knife, trim 1/2 inch of cake from each end to create clean edges; discard (or eat!). Slice off a 4 inch piece of cake. Starting 1 inch from end, divide 4 inch piece in half, cutting at a 45 degrees  angle, leaving 1 inch at opposite end. Transfer log to a platter.
Place angled side of each small piece of cake against roll to create branches, positioning one on top and the other on the side using a large dab of buttercream to secure. Cover any exposed cake on sides with more buttercream but leave cut ends exposed.
Use spatula to create textured lines in buttercream to look like birch bark.
Knead together marzipan and cocoa powder on a surface until smooth. Roll out on a sheet of parchment paper to less than 1/8 inch thick, then cut out wavy strips to look like tree knots; drape over buttercream and press gently to adhere.
Using either a pastry bag fitted with a very small round tip or a disposable plastic bag with one corner snipped off, drizzle melted chocolate over log to mimic birch bark striations. Chill Bûche de Noël, uncovered, until ready to serve.
Just before serving, press mushrooms perpendicularly into log in groups of 2 or 3.
Bûche de Noël (without meringue mushrooms) can be assembled 1 day ahead. Wrap in plastic and chill. Attach mushrooms just before serving.

Semolina–Lemon Syrup Cakes 
1 1/2 cups almond flour or almond meal
1/2 cup semolina flour
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
3 large eggs, beaten to blend
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
6 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/3 cup sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line the cups of a standard 12-cup muffin pan with paper liners. Whisk almond flour, semolina flour, baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl to combine.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat butter, sugar, and lemon zest until very light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. With motor running, gradually add eggs and beat until glossy, about 1 minute. Add dry ingredients and lemon juice and beat to combine, about 1 minute.
Divide batter among muffin cups and bake until cakes are golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 25–35 minutes.
Make the syrup while the cakes are baking. Bring lemon zest, lemon juice, and sugar to a boil in a small saucepan over medium heat, stirring to dissolve sugar; reduce heat and simmer 3 minutes. Remove from heat.
As soon as cakes come out of the oven, brush or spoon syrup liberally over top (you may not need all of it). Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cakes cool completely before turning out.
Cakes can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Grapefruit–Poppy Seed Loaf Cake with Yogurt Glaze 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt, plus more
1 tablespoon finely grated grapefruit zest
1 cup granulated sugar
2 large eggs, room temperature
1/3 cup vegetable oil
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon plain Greek yogurt
8 tablespoons fresh grapefruit juice, divided
1 tablespoon poppy seeds, plus more for sprinkling
1/2 cup powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line an 8 1/2-by-4 1/2–inch loaf pan, preferably metal, with parchment paper, leaving overhang on the long sides, and lightly coat with nonstick spray. Whisk flour, baking powder, and 3/4 tsp. salt in a medium bowl.
Using your fingers, work grapefruit zest into granulated sugar in a large bowl until sugar starts to clump and mixture is very fragrant, about 1 minute. Add eggs, oil, and vanilla and beat with an electric mixer on high speed until light and thick, about 4 minutes. Reduce speed to low and mix in half of dry ingredients, then mix in 3/4 cup yogurt. Mix in remaining dry ingredients followed by 5 Tbsp. grapefruit juice and 1 Tbsp. poppy seeds. Scrape batter into prepared pan and smooth top.
Bake cake until top is golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 50 to 60 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack. Poke holes in top of cake and brush remaining 3 Tbsp. grapefruit juice over top. Let sit 15 minutes, then run a knife around sides to loosen and use parchment paper to lift cake out of pan and onto rack. Remove parchment and let cool completely.
Whisk powdered sugar, remaining 1 Tbsp. yogurt, 1 tsp. water, and a pinch of salt in a medium bowl until smooth and drizzle over cake. Sprinkle with poppy seeds and let sit until glaze is set, about 30 minutes.
Loaf can be baked and glazed 3 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Our Favorite Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
10 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup (packed) light brown sugar
8 ounces chopped high-quality semisweet chocolate or chocolate chips (about 1 1/2 cups)

Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 375 degrees F. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper.
Whisk flour, baking powder, salt, and baking soda in a medium bowl. Lightly beat eggs and vanilla in a small bowl.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat butter, granulated sugar, and brown sugar in a large bowl until light and fluffy, 3–4 minutes. Add egg mixture and beat, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl, until mixture is pale and fluffy, 3–4 minutes. Reduce mixer speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients, beating until just incorporated. Fold in chocolate with a spatula.
Spoon about 12 heaping tablespoonfuls of dough onto each prepared sheet, spacing 1 inch apart. Chill dough 15 minutes on baking sheets before transferring to oven to prevent dough from spreading too much as it bakes.
Bake cookies, rotating sheets halfway through, until just golden brown around the edges, 10–12 minutes (cookies will firm up as they cool). Let cookies cool on baking sheets 3 minutes, then transfer to wire racks and let cool completely. Let baking sheet cool completely before lining with fresh parchment and spooning on dough for the third batch of cookies.
Dough can be made 3 months ahead. Wrap tightly and freeze. Cookies can be made 1 day ahead. Store in an airtight container at room temperature, or freeze up to 3 months.

Chocolate, Cinnamon, and Hazelnut Thumbprints 
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons hazelnuts (2.5 ounces)
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
2 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon, divided
1 cup granulated sugar
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, divided
1 large egg
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup sanding or pure cane sugar
4 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped (about 1 cup)
A spice mill

Position racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Toast hazelnuts on a rimmed baking sheet on upper rack, tossing occasionally, until golden brown, 10–12 minutes. Wrap nuts in a kitchen towel and let steam 1 minute. Rub nuts in towel to remove loose skins (don't worry about skins that don't come off) and let cool.
Grind 1/2 cup nuts in spice mill until finely ground. Transfer to a large bowl. Add flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, salt, and 1 1/4 tsp. cinnamon.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat granulated sugar and 1 cup butter in another large bowl until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add egg and vanilla and beat until combined. Reduce mixer speed to low, add dry ingredients, and beat until just combined.
Combine sanding sugar and remaining 1 tsp. cinnamon in a small bowl. Roll heaping 1-Tbsp. rounds of dough into balls, then roll in sanding sugar. Arrange balls on parchment-lined rimmed baking sheets at least 2 inch apart. Bake cookies, rotating sheets halfway through, until puffed and set but still moist, 10-12 minutes.
Remove baking sheets from oven and immediately make an indentation in the center of each cookie with the small end of a melon baller or the bottom of a rounded 1-tsp. measuring spoon. Transfer cookies on parchment to wire racks and let cool completely.
Finely chop remaining 2 Tbsp. nuts and set aside. Heat chocolate and remaining 4 Tbsp. butter in a small bowl in 10-second intervals in microwave, stirring often, until melted. Transfer chocolate mixture to a small resealable plastic bag and snip a 1/4 inch hole in one corner. Pipe chocolate into cookie indentations. Immediately sprinkle chocolate with reserved nuts. Let cookies stand until chocolate sets, about 20 minutes.
Cookies can be made up to 1 week ahead; keep in an airtight container at room temperature.

3-Ingredient Hazelnut Cookies 
2/3 cup skin-on hazelnuts (about 3 1/2 ounces)
1 large egg white
Pinch of kosher salt
1/3 cup sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Toast hazelnuts on a rimmed baking sheet, tossing occasionally, until golden brown, 13–15 minutes. Wrap nuts in a kitchen towel and let steam 1 minute. Rub nuts in towel to remove loose skins (don't worry about skins that don't come off) and let cool completely. Pulse in a food processor until coarsely chopped.
Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F. Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed (or using a whisk), beat egg white and salt in a medium bowl until stiff peaks form. Gently fold in sugar and chopped hazelnuts until well combined.
Using a tablespoon, spoon batter onto a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet, spacing about 2 inch apart. Bake cookies until golden brown, 16–18 minutes. Transfer cookies to wire racks and let cool.

Flourless Almond Cookies with Cardamom, Orange Zest, and Pistachios 
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup virgin coconut oil, softened at room temperature
1 large egg
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon finely grated orange zest (from about 2 oranges)
2 cups almond flour
1/4 cup potato starch
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup roasted, salted pistachios, finely chopped
3 ounces dark chocolate (for drizzling; optional)

Using an electric mixer on medium speed, cream sugar and oil in a large bowl until mixture resembles texture of wet sand, about 3 minutes. Add egg and orange zest and beat until just combined.
Whisk almond flour, potato starch, cardamom, and salt in a medium bowl. Fold dry ingredients into oil mixture. Cover with plastic wrap and chill 1 hour.
Spread pistachios in a single layer on a rimmed baking sheet. Divide dough into 2 balls. Roll each ball into 1 1/2 inch wide logs, then roll logs in pistachios to coat; reserve remaining pistachios for decorating, if desired. Wrap logs in plastic wrap and chill at least 1 1/2 hours.
Arrange racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment. Using a sharp knife, slice dough into 1/4 inch-thick rounds and arrange on baking sheets (about 12 per sheet). Sprinkle with reserved pistachios, pressing lightly to adhere (alternatively, drizzle with melted chocolate after cookies are baked, see below).
Bake cookies, rotating sheets halfway through, until undersides are golden, 8–12 minutes. Transfer cookies to wire racks. Let 1 sheet cool completely before lining again with parchment and baking third batch.
If you didn't sprinkle the cookies with pistachios, melt chocolate in a medium heatproof bowl set over a medium pot of barely simmering water, stirring occasionally, or in short bursts in the microwave, stirring in between bursts, until chocolate is smooth. Drizzle cooled cookies with chocolate and let set before serving.
Dough can be formed into logs 3 days ahead; keep chilled. Cookies can be baked 3 days ahead. Store in an airtight container at room temperature.

Spiced Chai Bundt Cake 
1 tablespoon chai tea leaves
2 tablespoons boiling water
2 1/2 cups self-rising flour
1 1/2 cups superfine sugar
2 teaspoons pumpkin pie spice
4 eggs
1 1/2 cups milk
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, melted
2 teaspoons vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place the chai and water in a small bowl and mix to combine. Place the flour, sugar, pumpkin pie spice, eggs, milk, butter, vanilla and tea mixture in a large bowl and whisk until smooth.
Pour into a well-greased Bundt pan and cook for 30–35 minutes or until cooked when tested with a skewer. Invert onto a wire rack and allow to cool for 10 minutes in the pan. Gently lift off the pan and allow to cool completely before serving.

Mascarpone Filling 
1 cup mascarpone, room temperature
Pinch of kosher salt
1/2 cup heavy cream
1/3 cup powdered sugar

Using an electric mixer on low speed, beat mascarpone and salt in a large bowl. With motor running, gradually pour in cream. Increase speed to medium and beat in powdered sugar. Continue beating until mixture forms medium peaks.
Filling can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill. Bring to room temperature before using.

Chocolate Chunk Share Cookie 
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup (135g) brown sugar
1/4 cup (55g) superfine sugar
1 egg
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup (150g) plain (all-purpose) flour
1/8 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 cup (25g) cocoa powder
1 1/2 ounces milk chocolate, chopped
1 1/2 ounces white chocolate, chopped
Vanilla ice-cream and store-bought caramel sauce or dulce de leche, to serve

Preheat oven to 160 degrees C (325 degrees F). Place the butter, both the sugars, egg, vanilla, flour, baking soda and cocoa in a food processor and process until a dough forms.
Press the dough out to a 10-inch round on a baking tray lined with non-stick baking paper, scatter with the chocolate and lightly press the pieces into the dough. Bake for 15–20 minutes or until firm to the touch. Allow to cool slightly on the tray. Serve warm with ice cream and caramel sauce.

Pistachio Cardamom Butter Cookies 
10 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 tablespoons whole cardamom pods, crushed
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup sugar
1 large egg
1/2 cup chopped unsalted, shelled raw pistachios (about 2 1/4 ounces)
8 ounces white chocolate, coarsely chopped
1 1/2 teaspoons vegetable oil
1/2 cup finely chopped unsalted, shelled raw pistachios (about 2 1/4 ounces)

Cook butter and cardamom in a small saucepan over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until butter is golden brown and fragrant, 6–8 minutes. Let stand 15 minutes, then strain butter through a fine-mesh sieve into a small bowl. Freeze until just firm, about 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, whisk flour, salt, and baking powder in a small bowl.
Transfer butter to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment; add sugar. Beat on medium-high speed until pale and well combined, about 2 minutes. Add egg and beat until combined, scraping down sides of bowl as needed. Add dry ingredients and pistachios and beat on low speed just until combined.
Turn out dough onto a clean work surface. Divide in half. Place each half on a 9x13 inch sheet of parchment paper with the long end facing you. Roll dough into 2 logs about 1 1/2 inch in diameter. Wrap each in parchment paper, making sure to cover ends completely. Chill until firm, at least 1 hour or up to overnight.
Position racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Let dough stand at room temperature until soft enough to slice, about 15 minutes. Slice logs into 1/4 inch-thick rounds. Arrange rounds on 2 parchment-lined rimmed baking sheets about 1 inch apart. Bake cookies, rotating sheets halfway through, until bottoms are lightly golden, 12–15 minutes. Transfer sheets to wire racks and let cool.
Combine chocolate and oil in a small heatproof bowl. Heat in 10-second intervals in microwave, stirring, until melted and combined, 30–40 seconds total.
Dip cookies halfway into melted chocolate and transfer to parchment-lined baking sheets. Sprinkle chocolate with pistachios. Chill until chocolate is set, about 10 minutes.
Dough can be made up to 2 weeks ahead; keep frozen. Let stand at room temperature until soft enough to slice, about 30 minutes.

Black and White Sesame Seed Cookies 
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
3 cups cake flour, plus more
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg
1 large egg yolk
1/2 cup black sesame seeds
1/4 teaspoon vegetable oil
1/2 cup white sesame seeds
4 cups powdered sugar
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
Pinch of kosher salt
A 3 inch-diameter cookie cutter

Whisk baking powder, salt, and 3 cups cake flour in a small bowl to combine. Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat butter and sugar in a medium bowl until well combined (butter does not need to be fluffy), about 3 minutes. Add egg and egg yolk and beat just to combine. Reduce speed to low and gradually mix in dry ingredients. Divide dough in half and form into 3/4 inch-thick disks. Wrap in plastic and chill until firm, about 2 hours.
Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Let 1 disk of dough sit at room temperature until slightly softened, about 5 minutes.
Roll out dough on a lightly floured sheet of parchment paper, shifting often on sheet and dusting with more flour as needed to keep from sticking, until about 1/4 inch thick. Punch out rounds with cookie cutter and transfer to parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing 1 1/2 inch apart. Pat scraps into a 3/4 inch-thick disk. Chill 15 minutes.
Bake cookies, rotating baking sheets halfway through, until edges are golden brown, 12-15 minutes. Transfer cookies to wire racks and let cool. Cut out and bake scraps, then repeat process with remaining disk of dough.
Dough can be made 1 month ahead; freeze. Cookies can be baked 2 weeks ahead; wrap tightly and freeze. Thaw before decorating. Frosting and Assembly Toss black sesame seeds and oil in a medium shallow bowl to coat seeds (this will keep them jet-black and shiny). Place white sesame seeds in another medium shallow bowl.
Whisk powdered sugar, lemon juice, salt, and 1/3 cup water in a large bowl until smooth. Place half of the icing in a pastry bag fitted with a 1/8 inch tip. (Or use a large resealable plastic bag and cut a small opening in 1 corner.)
Working with 1 cookie at a time, pipe down center and then around the edge of half of the cookie to create a semicircle. Pipe icing inside border to fill, then use a small offset spatula to evenly spread over half of the cookie. Working quickly so icing is still wet, dip frosted part of cookie into white sesame seeds, patting gently to adhere, then letting excess fall back into bowl. Let sit 15 minutes for icing to set.
Repeat process on the other half of the cookie, dipping into black sesame seeds, and let sit at least 20 minutes before serving
Cookies can be frosted and decorated 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Ombre Rainbow Cookies 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
10 ounces almond paste (about 1 cup), crumbled
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
6 large eggs, room temperature
3 cups all-purpose flour
5 3/4 teaspoons plus 4 drops green or red food coloring, divided
5 teaspoons matcha (green tea powder) or 1 ounce (about 1 cup) freeze-dried raspberries, divided
3/4 cup apricot jam, divided

Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat three 13x9 inch baking dishes with nonstick spray and line with parchment paper, leaving overhang on both long sides. Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat butter, sugar, almond paste, oil, and salt in a large bowl until mixture is well combined and fluffy, 5–8 minutes.
Add eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition to incorporate before adding the next. Continue to beat mixture until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Reduce speed to low and, with motor running, gradually add flour. Continue mixing just until combined. Divide batter evenly among 3 bowls. (Scoop out about 2 1/4 cups per bowl, or weigh out 500 g/1 lb. 2 oz. batter for each.)
If making matcha cookies, mix 4 drops green food coloring and 1/2 tsp. matcha into batter in first bowl. Mix 3/4 tsp. green food coloring and 1 1/2 tsp. matcha to batter in second bowl. Mix 5 tsp. green food coloring and 3 tsp. matcha into batter in last bowl. (This will create three shades of green batter.)
If making raspberry cookies, pulse raspberries in a food processor to create a fine powder. Mix 4 drops red food coloring and 1 1/2 tsp. raspberry powder to batter in first bowl. Mix 3/4 tsp. red food coloring and 1 Tbsp. plus 1 1/2 tsp. raspberry powder into batter in second bowl. Mix 5 tsp. red food coloring and 2 Tbsp. raspberry powder into last bowl of batter. (This will create three shades of red/pink batter.)
Scrape a bowl of batter into each prepared pan and smooth tops. Bake cakes, rotating pans halfway through, until center springs back when gently pressed, 12–15 minutes. Let cakes cool completely in pans.
Remove lightest-colored cake from pan, turning out onto a surface, and carefully peel away parchment paper. Spread half of jam evenly over top. Remove medium-colored cake from pan, peel away parchment paper, and place on top of light cake. Spread evenly with remaining jam. Remove darkest-colored cake from its pan, peel away parchment paper, and place on top. Press down gently to adhere layers and wrap tightly in plastic; chill at least 1 hour.
To make cookies, trim edges to square off; about 1/2 inch on each side should do it. Then, using a serrated knife, cut cake crosswise into 1 1/2 inch-wide strips (you should have 8 total). Cut strips crosswise into 3/4 inch-thick pieces.
Cakes can be assembled 5 days ahead; wrap tightly and keep chilled. Cut into pieces just before serving.

Double Ginger Sticky Toffee Pudding 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
2 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for pan
10 ounces Medjool dates, chopped (about 2 cups)
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
2 teaspoons finely grated peeled ginger
3 large eggs, room temperature
1/2 cup chopped crystallized ginger
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1 cup heavy cream
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
1 teaspoon kosher salt
Demerara sugar (for serving)
A 9-cup Bundt pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Thoroughly butter and flour pan, making sure to get into all curved or detailed places. Toss dates and baking soda in a small bowl to coat, then pour in 1 cup boiling water. Let mixture sit until dates are very soft, 10–15 minutes. Mash dates lightly with a fork (mixture will be thick but not smooth and homogenous).
While dates are soaking, whisk baking powder, salt, and remaining 2 cups flour in a medium bowl.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat brown sugar, fresh ginger, and remaining 1/2 cup butter in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend after each addition before adding the next. Then alternating, add dry ingredients and date mixture in 2 additions each, starting with dry ingredients and ending with date mixture. Fold in crystallized ginger. Scrape batter into prepared pan and smooth surface.
Bake cake until top is firm and springs back when gently pressed with your fingers and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 35–45 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack set inside a rimmed baking sheet. Let cake cool in pan 10 minutes before turning out onto rack, then let cool another 20 minutes (cake should still be warm).
Bring brown sugar, cream, butter, salt, and 2 tablespoons water to a boil in a small saucepan over medium-low heat, stirring to melt butter. Cook, stirring, until mixture is thick enough to coat a spoon, 5–8 minutes. Let cool slightly.
Poke holes all over warm cake with a toothpick. Wipe out Bundt pan; pour a third of sauce into pan. Carefully invert cake back into pan. Poke holes in bottom of cake and pour more sauce over. Let sit until cake absorbs sauce, 15–20 minutes.
Turn cake out onto rack (it may not come out at first but will eventually release) and sprinkle with demerara sugar. Serve cake with remaining toffee sauce. If the sauce has cooled by the time you're ready to serve, gently reheat just to warm through.
Cake can be made 1 day ahead; store tightly covered at room temperature. Cover and chill leftover sauce. Gently reheat before serving.

Apple Jack Stack Cake 
3 pounds assorted apples, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch wedges
1/2 cup brown sugar
1 cup apple cider
1/4 cup applejack, apple brandy, or bourbon
1 1/2 cups apple butter
5 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/3 cup buttermilk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
2 cups granulated sugar
1/4 cup molasses
2 large eggs
1 cup dark brown sugar
1/4 cup reserved apple cider mixture (from the filling)
1 tablespoon molasses
2 tablespoons unsalted butter

Put the apples, brown sugar, cider, and applejack in a large saucepan; bring to a boil over medium-high heat. Reduce the heat to medium-low and simmer, covered, stirring occasionally, until the apples are tender, about 20 minutes. Drain the apples and reserve 1/4 cup of the liquid. Set aside.
Position the racks in the upper-middle and lower-middle of the oven and preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Coat two baking sheets with cooking spray.
In a medium bowl, whisk the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt together. In a large liquid measuring cup, whisk together the buttermilk and vanilla.
In large bowl, with an electric mixer at medium-high speed, beat the butter and granulated sugar until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Reduce the speed to medium-low and add the molasses, beating until incorporated. Add the eggs one at a time and mix until incorporated. Gradually add the buttermilk (the mixture will look curdled); add the flour mixture and mix until a soft dough forms—it should look like cookie dough. Remove the dough from the bowl, pat into a round, cover in plastic wrap, and refrigerate for 20 minutes.
Divide the dough into 6 equal portions, about 8 1/2 ounces each. On parchment paper, roll portions of dough into circles about 1/4 inch thick. Use an 8-inch cake pan as a guide to trim into uniform 8-inch circles. Bake one circle on each prepared sheet until golden brown, 10 to 12 minutes, rotating and switching the baking sheets halfway through baking. Transfer the circles to cooling racks and let cool completely. The cakes will harden and set as they cool. Repeat with remaining dough. Reroll scraps to form a seventh layer.
Place the first layer on a serving plate and spread with 1/4 cup of the apple butter. Arrange one-sixth of the cooled cooked apples on top of apple butter and top with another layer of cake. Repeat with the remaining filling and cake layers, ending with a cake layer on top. Wrap the cake tightly in plastic wrap and refrigerate until the layers soften, at least 12 hours and up to 2 days.
In a small saucepan, combine the brown sugar, reserved apple cider mixture, and the molasses. Bring to a low boil over medium-high heat and cook until the sugar is dissolved, about 2 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in the butter until smooth. Let cool for 5 minutes, then pour the glaze over the top of the cake. Slice and serve, or store the cake, covered, at room temperature for up to 3 days.

Coffee Doughnuts with Coffee Glaze 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1 large egg, room temperature
1/3 cup buttermilk
2 tablespoons cold brew coffee concentrate
2 quarts canola oil (for frying)
1 cup powdered sugar
2 tablespoons cold brew coffee concentrate
A 3 inch round cutter, 1 inch round cutter, deep-fry thermometer

Combine flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a large bowl.
Beat granulated sugar and butter in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment on medium speed until smooth, about 3 minutes.
Add egg and continue to beat, scraping down sides of bowl as needed, until incorporated. Reduce speed to low and gradually add buttermilk and coffee concentrate, beating just until combined. Gradually add dry ingredients and beat just until dough comes together.
Turn out dough onto a large piece of parchment paper and cover with a second sheet of parchment. Using a rolling pin, roll dough between parchment sheets to about 1/3 inch thick. Transfer dough in parchment to a rimmed baking sheet and freeze until firm, about 20 minutes.
Peel off top sheet of parchment. Working on bottom sheet, punch out as many rounds as you can with 3 inch cutter, then use 1 inch cutter to punch out center of each round. Gather doughnut holes and scraps and re-roll; repeat process 3–4 times until all dough has been used (you should have 12 doughnuts). Place doughnuts on a second parchment-lined baking sheet and freeze until slightly chilled, about 5 minutes.
Pour oil into a heavy-duty pot to a depth of 2 inch and fit pot with deep-fry thermometer. Heat oil to 375ºF. Working in batches, fry doughnuts until deep golden brown, about 1 minute per side. Transfer to a wire rack lined with paper towels and let cool 2–3 minutes.
Whisk powdered sugar and coffee concentrate in a large bowl until smooth. Dip warm doughnuts in glaze. Place on a wire rack to let glaze set, about 3 minutes, then dip again.

Dark Chocolate Pretzel Cake 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, chopped
16 ounces dark chocolate, chopped
4 eggs, separated
1/4 cup superfine sugar
2 teaspoons sea salt
1 cup mini pretzels

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly grease and line a 9-inch round springform pan with non-stick parchment paper. Place the butter and chocolate in a large bowl over a pot of simmering water and stir until melted and smooth. Remove the bowl from the heat and set aside. Place the egg whites in the bowl of an electric mixer and whisk on medium speed until soft peaks form. Gradually add the sugar and whisk until the mixture is thick and glossy.
Add the egg yolks and salt to the chocolate mixture and stir to combine. In 3 batches, gently fold the egg white mixture into the chocolate mixture until just combined. Pour into the pan and arrange the pretzels on top. Bake for 25 minutes or until the edges are cooked when tested with a skewer and the center is just set. Refrigerate for 3 hours or until chilled. Slice to serve.

Chocolate-Nut Rugelach 
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour, plus more
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
2 large egg yolks
1/3 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 (13-ounce) jar Nutella, divided
1 1/2 cups finely chopped pistachios, pecans, and/or walnuts, divided
2 tablespoons demerara sugar, divided
1 teaspoon flaky sea salt, divided, plus more
1 large egg, beaten to blend

Pulse cocoa, brown sugar, kosher salt, baking powder, and 2 1/2 cups flour in a food processor to combine. Add butter and pulse until largest pieces are pea-size.
Beat egg yolks, sour cream, and vanilla extract in a small bowl until smooth. With the motor running, stream sour cream mixture into food processor and process until dough forms a ball around the blade. Turn out dough onto a surface and knead several times until it is smooth and homogenous. Divide in half and form into 3/4 inch-thick disks. Wrap in plastic and chill until firm, about 2 hours.
Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Let 1 disk of dough sit at room temperature until slightly softened, about 5 minutes.
Roll out dough on a lightly floured sheet of parchment paper, shifting often on sheet and dusting with more flour as needed to keep from sticking, to a 12 inch square. Using a small offset spatula, spread half of Nutella over dough in a thin layer. Sprinkle half of nuts, 1 Tbsp. demerara sugar, and 1/2 tsp. sea salt over Nutella. Roll up dough to make a log, using parchment paper to help. Repeat with remaining dough, Nutella, nuts, 1 Tbsp. demerara sugar, and 1/2 tsp. sea salt.
Slice logs 1 inch thick and transfer to parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing 1 1/2 inch apart. Brush tops with egg and sprinkle lightly with more sea salt. Bake rugelach until centers are set and tops are firm to the touch, 25–30 minutes; let cool.
Dough can be made 1 month ahead. Freeze.

Salted Caramel Chocolate Brownie 
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon baking powder
1 1/4 cups brown sugar
2 eggs
1/3 cup store-bought caramel filling or dulce de leche
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2/3 cup unsalted butter, melted
5 1/4 ounces dark chocolate, chopped (about 2/3 cup)
1/2 teaspoon sea salt

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Place the flour, baking powder and sugar in a bowl and mix to combine. Add the eggs, caramel, vanilla and butter and whisk until smooth. Stir in the chocolate and spoon the mixture into an 8 inch square cake pan lined with non-stick parchment paper. Sprinkle with the sea salt and bake for 40–45 minutes or until just firm around the edges.
Cut into 16 squares and serve warm or cold.

Apple Cider Doughnuts with Cider-Caramel Glaze 
4 cups spiced apple cider
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1/2 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1 cup spiced apple cider
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces, room temperature
1 large egg, room temperature
1/3 cup buttermilk
2 quarts canola oil (for frying)
A 3 inch round cutter, 1 inch round cutter, deep-fry thermometer

Bring cider to a boil in a large saucepan. Reduce heat and simmer until reduced to about 2 cups, 15–20 minutes. Stir in butter and brown sugar continue to simmer, stirring occasionally, until reduced to about 1 1/2 cups, about 8 minutes more. Remove from heat; glaze will thicken as it sits.
Bring cider to a simmer in a medium saucepan and cook until reduced to about 2 Tbsp., 20–30 minutes. Let cool.
Meanwhile, combine flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a large bowl.
Beat granulated sugar and butter in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment on medium speed until smooth, about 3 minutes.
Add egg and continue to beat, scraping down sides of bowl as needed, until incorporated. Reduce speed to low and gradually add buttermilk and reserved reduced cider, beating just until combined. Gradually add dry ingredients and beat just until dough comes together.
Turn out dough onto a large piece of parchment paper and cover with a second sheet of parchment. Using a rolling pin, roll dough between parchment sheets to about 1/3 inch thick. Transfer dough in parchment to a rimmed baking sheet and freeze until firm, about 20 minutes.
Peel off top sheet of parchment. Working on bottom sheet, punch out as many rounds as you can with 3 inch cutter, then use 1 inch cutter to punch out center of each round. Gather doughnut holes and scraps and re-roll; repeat process 3–4 times until all dough has been used (you should have 12 doughnuts). Place doughnuts on a second parchment-lined baking sheet and freeze until slightly chilled, about 5 minutes.
Pour oil into a heavy-duty pot to a depth of 2 inch and fit pot with deep-fry thermometer. Heat oil to 375ºF. Working in batches, fry doughnuts until deep golden brown, about 1 minute per side. Transfer to a wire rack lined with paper towels and let cool 2-3 minutes. Dip warm doughnuts in Cider-Caramel Glaze. Place on rack to let glaze set, about 3 minutes, then dip again.

Upside-Down Blood Orange–Polenta Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3/4 cup (packed) light brown sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, divided
6 blood oranges, peel and white pith removed, each sliced into 4 rounds, seeds removed
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons polenta (not quick-cooking)
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup granulated sugar
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
4 large eggs, room temperature
3/4 cup buttermilk, room temperature
Lemon omani (dried black limes), green cardamom pods, and softly whipped cream (for serving; optional)
A 9 inch springform pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat pan with nonstick spray and place on a foil-lined rimmed baking sheet. Cook brown sugar, 1/4 cup butter, and 2 Tbsp. water in a small saucepan over medium heat, stirring, until sugar is dissolved and mixture is smooth. Bring to a boil and cook, without stirring, 2 minutes (it should be slightly thickened). Pour caramel into prepared pan and let rest until set, about 5 minutes.
Arrange orange slices in concentric circles in a single layer over caramel. (Start with larger slices around the outside, then use smaller ones as you work toward the center. Cut up leftover citrus to fill in the gaps.)
Whisk flour, polenta, salt, baking powder, and baking soda in a medium bowl. Place granulated sugar and remaining 1/2 cup butter in a large bowl; scrape in vanilla seeds and save pod for another use. Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend between additions; beat until mixture is very fluffy, about 3 minutes.
Reduce mixer speed to low. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions alternating with buttermilk in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients; mix just until batter is smooth. Scrape batter into prepared pan (be careful not to disturb orange slices) and smooth surface with an offset spatula.
Bake cake until golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 50–65 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool 10 minutes. Run a knife around edges of cake to loosen, then unmold. Invert cake onto rack and carefully remove bottom of pan. Let cool completely.
Finely grate lemon omani and cardamom pods over cake and whipped cream, if desired. Serve cake with whipped cream alongside.

Spiced Brown Butter Linzer Cookies 
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon finely ground black pepper
3 3/4 cups all-purpose flour, plus more
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
2 teaspoons finely grated lemon zest
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
1 large egg, room temperature
2 large egg yolks, room temperature
Powdered sugar (for dusting)
1/2 cup red currant jelly
A 3 x 1 1/2 inch cookie cutter or other similarly sized shape and 1 inch and 1 1/2 inch cookie cutters

Cook butter in a large saucepan over medium heat, stirring often, until butter foams, then browns, 5–8 minutes. Scrape into a large bowl; let cool.
Whisk salt, baking powder, cardamom, cloves, pepper, and 3 3/4 cups flour in a medium bowl to combine.
Add granulated sugar and lemon zest to butter; scrape in vanilla seeds and discard pod. Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat until very light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Beat in egg, then yolks. Reduce speed to low and add dry ingredients in 3 batches, incorporating after each addition.
Turn out dough onto a surface and knead until no dry spots remain. Divide in half and form into 3/4 inch-thick disks. Wrap in plastic and chill until firm, about 2 hours.
Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Let 1 disk of dough sit at room temperature until slightly softened, about 5 minutes. Roll out on a lightly floured sheet of parchment paper, shifting often on sheet and dusting with more flour as needed to keep from sticking, until about 1/8 inch thick. Cut into desired shapes with cutters; transfer to parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing 1/2 inch apart. Gather scraps, reroll, and cut out more shapes. Repeat with remaining disk of dough. (Make sure to cut out an even number.)
Using smaller cutter, punch out cutouts in half of the cookies as desired. Chill 15 minutes, then bake, rotating sheets halfway through, until golden brown around edges, 10–12 minutes. Let cookies cool on baking sheets. Dust cutout cookies with powdered sugar. Stir jelly to smooth, turn remaining cookies over, and spread each with 3/4 tsp. jelly. Top with powdered cookies. Let sit until jam is set, 15–20 minutes.
Dough can be made 1 month ahead; freeze. Cookies can be made 1 day ahead; cover and chill.

Chai Doughnuts with Spiced Sugar 
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/8 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/8 teaspoon ground ginger
1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/8 teaspoon ground ginger
1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 cup sugar
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1 large egg, room temperature
1/3 cup buttermilk
2 tablespoons freshly brewed chai tea
2 quarts canola oil (for frying)
A 3 inch round cutter, 1 inch round cutter, deep-fry thermometer

Whisk sugar, cinnamon, salt, cardamom, ginger, and nutmeg in a large bowl until well combined.
Combine flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, cardamom, ginger, and nutmeg in a large bowl.
Beat sugar and butter in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment on medium speed until smooth, about 3 minutes.
Add egg and continue to beat, scraping down sides of bowl as needed, until incorporated. Reduce speed to low and gradually add buttermilk and tea, beating just until combined. Gradually add dry ingredients and beat just until dough comes together.
Turn out dough onto a large piece of parchment paper and cover with a second sheet of parchment. Using a rolling pin, roll dough between parchment sheets to about 1/3 inch thick. Transfer dough in parchment to a rimmed baking sheet and freeze until firm, about 20 minutes.
Peel off top sheet of parchment. Working on bottom sheet, punch out as many rounds as you can with 3 inch cutter, then use 1 inch cutter to punch out center of each round. Gather doughnut holes and scraps and re-roll; repeat process 3–4 times until all dough has been used (you should have 12 doughnuts). Place doughnuts on a second parchment-lined baking sheet and freeze until slightly chilled, about 5 minutes.
Pour oil into a heavy-duty pot to a depth of 2 inch and fit pot with deep-fry thermometer. Heat oil to 375ºF. Working in batches, fry doughnuts until deep golden brown, about 1 minute per side. Transfer to a wire rack lined with paper towels and let cool 2–3 minutes. Toss doughnuts in Spiced Sugar.

Molten Peanut Butter and Chocolate Fondant Cakes 
7 ounces dark chocolate, chopped
7 tablespoons unsalted butter, chopped
2 eggs
2 egg yolks
1/2 cup superfine sugar
1/4 cup all-purpose flour, sifted
8 tablespoons smooth peanut butter
Cocoa powder, for dusting
Four (1-cup) dariole molds (or other 1-cup baking molds)

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Place the chocolate and butter in a saucepan over low heat and stir until the chocolate is melted and smooth. Place the eggs, egg yolks and sugar in a bowl and whisk until well combined. Add the chocolate mixture and flour and whisk until well combined.
Spoon two-thirds of the mixture into 4 (1-cup) well-greased dariole molds or other 1-cup baking molds. Spoon 2 tablespoons peanut butter into the center of each mold and spoon the remaining chocolate mixture over. Place the molds on a baking sheet and bake for 16–18 minutes or until puffed. Gently turn out the cakes immediately and dust with cocoa powder to serve.

Danish Salted-Butter Cookies 
1 cup (2 sticks) chilled salted butter, cut into pieces
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
2 large eggs
2 cups all-purpose flour, plus more
1 cup white sanding sugar
A 3 inch-diameter and a 1 1/2 inch-diameter fluted cookie cutter

Combine butter and granulated sugar in a large bowl; scrape in vanilla seeds and discard pod. Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat until very light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Beat in 1 egg. Reduce speed to low; gradually mix in 2 cups flour. Form dough into a 3/4 inch-thick disk. Wrap in plastic and chill until firm, about 2 hours.
Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Let disk of dough sit at room temperature until slightly softened, about 5 minutes. Roll out on a lightly floured sheet of parchment paper, shifting often on sheet and dusting with more flour as needed to keep from sticking, until about 3/8 inch thick.
Punch out rounds with large cutter; punch out centers with smaller cutter. Transfer to parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing 1 1/2 inch apart. Pat scraps into a 3/4 inch-thick disk. Chill 15 minutes.
Beat remaining egg in a small bowl with 1 tsp. water; brush cookies with egg wash; sprinkle with sanding sugar. Freeze 10 minutes. Bake, rotating baking sheets halfway through, until edges are golden brown, 10–15 minutes. Transfer to wire racks; let cool. Repeat with scraps and remaining egg wash and sanding sugar.
Dough can be made 1 month ahead; freeze. Cookies can be baked 2 days ahead; store airtight at room temperature.

Green Tea Cheesecake 
150g biscuits (I use malt biscuits), crushed
35g butter, melted
Sesame seeds
250g cream cheese
60g sugar
2 tablespoons lemon juice
100g plain yoghurt
1 cup cream, whipped
3 tablespoons gelatine powder, dissolved in 50ml warm water
1 teaspoon matcha powder, plus 1/4 teaspoon extra

Mix biscuits and butter and press into base of a 24 cm round cake tin. Spread evenly and press with the palm of your hand. Sprinkle with sesame seeds and refrigerate to firm up.
Mix together cream cheese, sugar, lemon juice and yoghurt until smooth. Mix in whipped cream. Add dissolved gelatine and mix very gently.
Pour half mixture into cake tin over biscuit base. Spread with a rubber spatula and return to fridge.
Mix matcha powder with 1 tablespoon water until smooth. Pour into remaining half of cheesecake filling and mix well. Pour gently into the tin, keeping 1 tablespoon of filling mixture to use for decoration. Use rubber spatula to spread and make a flat surface.
Add 1/4 teaspoon extra matcha powder to the 1 tablespoon filling to darken it for decoration.
Use a teaspoon to draw lines on the cheesecake with the darker matcha mix. Use chopsticks to drag horizontal lines and make patterns, as shown in the picture. Refrigerate for 2 hours before serving.

Food Processor Carrot Cake 
1 pound carrots, peeled and roughly chopped
1 cup pecans
1 cup brown sugar
1/2 cup superfine sugar
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1/4 cup plain yogurt
2 eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
8 ounces cream cheese, softened
1/4 cup fresh ricotta
1/3 cup powdered sugar
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla bean paste

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Place the carrots and pecans in a food processor and process until finely chopped. Add both the sugars, flour, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, oil, yogurt, eggs and vanilla, and pulse in short bursts until combined.
Pour the mixture into a 9 inch round springform pan lined with non-stick parchment paper and bake for 55–60 minutes or until just cooked when tested with a skewer. Cool in the pan.
To make the cream cheese frosting, place the cream cheese, ricotta, sugar, lemon juice and vanilla in a food processor and process until smooth. Spread the frosting over the cooled cake to serve.

Classic Lemon Cheesecake 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup superfine sugar
7 tablespoons unsalted butter, chopped
3/4 pound cream cheese, softened
1 pound ricotta
4 eggs
1 1/3 cups superfine sugar
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
2 tablespoons finely grated lemon zest
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 1/2 tablespoons water
1 cup whipping cream, whipped

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Place the flour, sugar and butter in a bowl and rub with your fingertips to form a rough dough. Using the back of a spoon, press the mixture into the base of a lightly greased 8 inch round springform pan lined with non-stick parchment paper. Bake the crust for 30 minutes or until golden and just cooked. Set aside.
To make the filling, place the cream cheese, ricotta, eggs, sugar, lemon juice and zest, and vanilla in a food processor and process until smooth. Place the cornstarch and water in bowl and mix until smooth. Add the cornstarch mixture to the cheese mixture and mix to combine. Pour over the crust and bake for 1 hour and 10 minutes or until light golden and just set. Turn the oven off and allow to cool in the oven with the door closed. Refrigerate for 1 hour or until cold. Top with the whipped cream to serve.

Bourbon Balls 
2 cups crushed vanilla wafers (about 8 ounces)
1 cup finely chopped toasted pecans
8 ounces bittersweet chocolate, such as Nashville-made Olive & Sinclair 67% cacao chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup heavy cream
1/4 cup light corn syrup
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/3 cup bourbon
Finely ground vanilla wafers
Finely chopped pecans or other nuts
Dusting of cocoa powder, cinnamon sugar, or confectioner's sugar

Combine the crushed wafers and pecans in a large bowl. Place the chopped chocolate in a separate bowl.
In a small saucepan, combine the cream, corn syrup, and cinnamon, place over medium heat, and bring to just a boil, stirring constantly. Immediately pour the mixture over the chopped chocolate and whisk to blend in the cream as the chocolate melts. Let cool for 1 to 2 minutes, then whisk in the bourbon.
Pour the chocolate mixture over the crumb-nut mixture and stir well to combine. Place in the refrigerator to chill for 30 minutes. Form the mixture into balls with a small melon baller (about 2 teaspoons), roll in coatings if desired, and arrange on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Store in an airtight container in a cool place for up to 1 week.

Spiced Pear Upside-Down Cake 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, plus more for pan
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for pan
3 tablespoons fresh orange juice
1/4 cup pomegranate molasses, plus more for serving
1 3/4 cups sugar, divided
4 small ripe Bosc pears (about 1 1/2 pounds), peeled, halved lengthwise, cored
1 cup unsalted, roasted walnuts
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
4 large eggs
1 teaspoon finely grated orange zest
1 cup olive oil

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 10 inch-diameter cake pan and line bottom with a parchment paper round; flour sides of pan. Cook orange juice, 1/4 cup pomegranate molasses, 1/4 cup sugar, and remaining 2 tablespoons butter in a medium skillet over medium heat, stirring, until sugar is dissolved and mixture is slightly reduced, about 4 minutes. Add pears, cut side up, and cook (undisturbed) until they begin to release their juices, about 3 minutes. Turn pears over and cook just until slightly softened, about 3 minutes. Let cool slightly, then arrange pears, cut side down, in prepared pan.
Return skillet to medium heat and cook liquid in skillet until thickened and syrupy, about 5 minutes, depending on juiciness of pears. Pour syrup over pears and freeze while you prepare the batter (this is to allow syrup to set up—don't let it freeze solid).
Pulse walnuts and remaining 1 1/2 cups flour in food processor until walnuts are finely ground. Pulse in baking powder, baking soda, salt, and cardamom.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat eggs, orange zest, and remaining 1 1/2 cups sugar in a medium bowl until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Fold in dry ingredients in 2 additions, fully incorporating before adding the next addition, then gradually mix in oil. Pour batter over pears and smooth top.
Set pan on a foil-lined rimmed baking sheet and bake cake until top is golden brown and a tester inserted in the center comes out clean, 50–60 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack and let cool in pan, 15–20 minutes. Run knife around edges of cake to loosen and invert onto rack. Remove parchment and let cake cool completely.
Drizzle cake with more pomegranate molasses just before serving.
Cake can be baked 1 day ahead. Store tightly covered at room temperature.

Homemade Yellow Cake 
1/3 cup vegetable oil, plus more for pan
All-purpose flour (for pan)
Homemade Yellow Cake Mix
3 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups favorite frosting

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease and flour a 13x9 inch baking dish.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat cake mix, eggs, vanilla, 1/3 cup oil, and 1 cup water in a large bowl until combined, about 2 minutes. Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake cake until surface springs back to the touch and cake is set and golden brown, 25–30 minutes. Let cool completely, then turn out onto a platter before frosting.
Cake can be made 3 days ahead; store at room temperature.

Peach-Blackberry Camp Cake 
2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
4 peaches, halved, pitted
2 tablespoons bourbon
Pinch of kosher salt
6 tablespoons demerara or dark brown sugar, divided
Vegetable oil (for foil)
1 large egg
3/4 cup buttermilk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
6 ounces blackberries (about 1 cup)
1/3 cup coarsely chopped unsalted, roasted almonds
1 cup plain Greek yogurt
7-quart. Dutch oven or other large cast-iron Dutch oven with a flanged lid

Whisk flour, granulated sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a medium bowl; transfer to a large resealable plastic bag.
Cake mix can be made 1 week ahead. Store at room temperature.
Build a fire in a pit and let it burn down until coals are covered with ash. Rake a layer of coals away to one side of fire. Toss peaches, bourbon, salt, 2 tablespoons demerara sugar, and 2 tablespoons water on a 20x12 inch sheet of heavy-duty foil, then fold edges up and over to create a packet; pinch edges closed. Cook on a grate over coals, adding a splash or two of water halfway through if needed, until soft, 20–30 minutes. Let peaches cool slightly; coarsely chop.
Line a Dutch oven with 2 layers of heavy-duty foil; lightly oil foil. Combine egg, buttermilk, and vanilla in a measuring glass or small bowl. Place cake mix in a large bowl and vigorously stir in butter and 1/4 cup buttermilk mixture, adding a bit more buttermilk mixture if needed, until a very thick paste forms. Stir in remaining buttermilk mixture, then add blackberries and peaches along with any juices and gently fold in just until mixture looks marbled. Scrape batter into Dutch oven; top with almonds and sprinkle with 2 tablespoons demerara sugar. Cover.
Place Dutch oven directly in coals and set 18 hot briquettes (or scoop about a 1 inch layer of fine coals) on top of lid. Bake, rotating lid every 10 minutes (for even baking) and replenishing coals as needed, until cake is firm to the touch when gently pressed, 25–30 minutes.
Just before serving, place yogurt in a small bowl and sprinkle remaining 2 tablespoons demerara sugar over top. Let sit until sugar dissolves, about 5 minutes.
Serve warm cake upside down and dolloped with yogurt.

Pan Cake 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup sugar
1/8 cup unsweetened cocoa
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon finely ground coffee beans (optional)
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 tablespoon red or white wine vinegar
1/3 cup vegetable oil

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Put the flour, sugar, cocoa, salt, baking soda, and ground coffee beans (if using) in an ungreased 8-or 9-inch round cake pan and stir with a whisk. Make a crater, pour in the remaining ingredients and 1 cup water, and whisk until all the corners are gotten and the batter is smooth. Put in the oven and start checking for doneness in 20 minutes; the cake should be done at around 30 minutes.
Vanilla ice cream really helps pan cake, and so does chocolate whipped cream frosting. Start with 4 ounces of semisweet chocolate, chopped or chips, and 1 pint whipping cream. Put all the chocolate and about 1/2 cup of the cream in a medium mixing bowl and heat over simmering water until the chocolate has melted. Remove from the heat and whisk in the rest of the cream and 1 or 2 teaspoons sugar. Refrigerate until well chilled and then whip until thick and smooth. Be sure the cake is completely cooled before spreading on. If it's a warm day and you're not eating the cake right away, refrigerate it or the chocolate cream will melt right off.

Flourless Apple, Almond, and Ginger Cake 
3 Granny Smith apples
30 g (1 ounce) unsalted butter
50 g (1 3/4 ounces/1/4 cup) caster (superfine) sugar
2 whole cloves
80 g (1/2 cup) raisins
260 g (9 1/4 ounces/2 1/3 cups) ground almonds
220 g (1 1/2 cups) whole almonds
2 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
2 teaspoons baking powder
4 eggs
230 g (8 1/2 ounces/1 cup) raw (demerara) sugar
145 ml (1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon) pure maple or golden syrup (light treacle)
2 royal gala or golden delicious apples
50 g (1/3 cup) whole almonds, coarsely chopped
50 g (1 3/4 ounces) butter, melted
50 g (1/4 cup) raw (demerara) sugar

Preheat the oven to 180 degrees C (350 degrees F/Gas 4). Grease and line a 26 cm (10 1/2 inch) springform cake tin.
Peel and core the apples, then cut into wedges.
Over medium heat, melt the butter in a frying pan large enough to fit the apples in one layer. Add the apple wedges, caster sugar and cloves and toss to combine. Cook, stirring occasionally, until the apples are well coated, soft and starting to colour, about 5–10 minutes. There should be no liquid left in the pan. Remove the cloves, add the raisins and cook for another minute or so to soften. Remove from the heat and cool.
Process the ground almonds, whole almonds, ginger and baking powder in a food processor until coarsely chopped. Set aside.
In an electric mixer, whisk the eggs, raw sugar and maple or golden syrup until light and fluffy. Fold in the nut mixture and cooked apples. Pour into the prepared tin.
To make the topping, core and thinly slice the apples and arrange over the cake batter, overlapping slightly. Scatter the almonds on top, pour the melted butter over and then sprinkle on the sugar.
Bake the cake for about 1–1 1/4 hours until golden and cooked through and a skewer inserted in the middle comes out clean. If the cake is browning too quickly, cover with some foil.
Cool completely in the tin and serve at room temperature with plain yoghurt or vanilla ice cream.

Chocolate Plum Cake 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, plus more for pan
1 pound ripe or very ripe plums, coarsely chopped
6 ounces bittersweet chocolate (70–72% cacao), coarsely chopped
5 large eggs, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/2 cups cold heavy cream
Unsweetened cocoa powder (for dusting)
A 9-inch-diameter springform pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter bottom and sides of springform pan and line bottom with parchment.
Purée plums in a blender until very smooth (you need 1 1/2 cups; reserve any additional purée for another use). If plums are not ripe enough to form a very smooth purée, strain through a fine-mesh sieve.
Combine chocolate and 3/4 cup butter in a large heatproof bowl. Set bowl over a medium saucepan of barely simmering water (do not let bowl touch water). Stir until chocolate is melted and smooth. Remove bowl from saucepan. Stir plum purée into chocolate mixture until well combined.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat eggs and sugar in another large bowl until pale and tripled in volume, 10–12 minutes. Using a rubber spatula, fold about 1/3 of the egg mixture into chocolate mixture to lighten, then fold chocolate mixture into remaining egg mixture until combined.
Combine flour, baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl, then fold dry ingredients into chocolate mixture until combined.
Pour batter into prepared pan and smooth surface. Bake cake until center is set and sides are beginning to brown, 45–55 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack and let cake cool completely in pan (cake will sink a little in the center as it cools).
Meanwhile, using an electric mixer on medium-low speed, beat cream in a large bowl until soft peaks form. Unmold cake (run a knife around the edge to help release, if needed) and transfer to a platter. Mound whipped cream in center of cake, then dust with cocoa powder.

Homemade Yellow Cake Mix 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt

Whisk flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a large bowl or airtight container. To bake into a cake, follow the directions in our Homemade Yellow Cake recipe.
Store cake mix in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 1 month or freeze for up to 3 months.

Banana Split Ice Cream Cake 
2 (9-ounce) packages chocolate wafer cookies
1 cup virgin coconut oil, melted
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
3/4 cup sugar
4 large ripe bananas (about 1 1/2 pounds), cut into 2 inch pieces
1/4 cup heavy cream
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
5 pints vanilla ice cream, softened at room temperature 10 minutes, divided
1 3/4 cups maraschino cherries (from two 10-ounce jars), drained, patted dry, stems removed, plus more with stems for serving
2 1/4 teaspoons powdered unflavored gelatin (from one 1/4-ounce envelope)
1/2 cup sugar
3 cups heavy cream
1/3 cup salted, roasted peanuts, coarsely chopped
A 9 inch springform pan

Pulse cookies in a food processor until coarsely ground. Transfer to a large bowl and add coconut oil and salt. Mix with your hands until crumbs are coated in oil and mixture resembles wet sand.
Press 2 cups cookie crumbs into the bottom of springform pan and freeze until ready to use. Spread out remaining crumbs on a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet in an even layer (do not press). Freeze crumbs on baking sheet 30 minutes, then crumble into very small pieces with your hands. Freeze until ready to use.
Bring sugar and 1/4 cup water to a boil in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat, stirring to dissolve sugar. Cook, swirling pan occasionally, until caramel is a deep amber color, 8–10 minutes. Reduce heat to low and add bananas a few pieces at a time, stirring between additions. Add cream and salt and cook, stirring often, until bananas are almost entirely broken down (only a few chunks should remain), about 5 minutes. Transfer to a medium bowl and let cool.
Mix 2 1/2 pints ice cream in a large bowl with a wooden spoon until it resembles thick cake batter (it should be soft but not melted). Fold in 1 1/2 cups cookie crumble with a rubber spatula and scrape into pan with cookie crust; smooth top. Sprinkle 1 cup cookie crumble over ice cream, pressing lightly to adhere. Working quickly, scrape caramel-banana jam over cookie crumble and spread evenly. Top caramel with 1 cup cookie crumble. Freeze 20 minutes.
Mix remaining 2 1/2 pints ice cream in the same bowl to cake-batter consistency. Fold in 1 3/4 cups cherries. Scrape into pan over cookie crumble and smooth top (it may come up over the edge of the pan). Top with remaining cookie crumble. Freeze cake until frozen, about 3 hours (or overnight).
Sprinkle gelatin over 1/2 cup water in a small saucepan. Let sit 5 minutes to soften. Add sugar and bring to a bare simmer, stirring to dissolve gelatin and sugar. Let cool slightly, then transfer to a large bowl and whisk in cream. Beat to medium peaks.
Unmold cake (run a knife around the edge to help release, if needed) and transfer to a platter. Spread threequarters of whipped cream over sides and top of cake. Use remaining whipped cream to create dramatic height, swirling decoratively. Top with nuts and cherries with stems. Freeze cake at least 2 hours before serving. Slice with a warm knife.
Cake can be frosted 1 day ahead; freeze uncovered.

3-Ingredient Japanese Cheesecake 
9 ounces white chocolate (about 1 1/2 cups chips or chopped chocolate)
8 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
6 large eggs, separated, room temperature
A 8 inch round cake pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line bottom of 8 inch cake pan with parchment paper. Cut a 21x5 inch strip of parchment, butter or oil parchment, and line sides of pan. Center the pan on a large piece of foil and fold foil up over the sides to prevent water from entering pan.
Place white chocolate in a medium heatproof bowl and heat in microwave in 20-second intervals (or set bowl over a saucepan of barely simmering water), stirring occasionally, until melted. Transfer to a large bowl and stir in cream cheese. Let cool slightly, then add yolks and stir to combine.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, whip egg whites in another large bowl until stiff peaks form. Add a small portion of egg whites to chocolate mixture and stir just until lightened. Gently fold in remaining egg whites in 2 additions until just combined.
Pour batter into prepared pan. Place pan in a baking dish or roasting pan and add warm water to reach halfway up sides of cake pan. Bake cheesecake until set, 40–45 minutes. Turn oven off and leave pan in oven 15 minutes, then transfer to a wire rack and let cool completely. Remove cheesecake from pan, transfer to a platter, and chill until cold, at least 4 hours or up to overnight.

Homemade Dump Cake With Peaches, Blueberries, and Pecans 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, cubed, plus more for pan
All-purpose flour (for pan)
1 pound sliced frozen peaches (about 4 cups)
1 pint fresh blueberries (about 2 cups)
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Homemade Yellow Cake Mix or 1 (16-ounce) box store-bought yellow cake mix
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 cup pecans, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour a 13x9 inch baking dish. Arrange peaches and blueberries in a single layer in prepared dish. Top evenly with sugar and add vanilla. Shake pan gently to cover fruit with sugar. Sprinkle cake mix and cinnamon over fruit and shake gently again to combine. Dot evenly with 3/4 cup cubed butter and top with pecans. Bake cake until surface springs back to the touch and cake is set and golden brown, 40-45 minutes. Serve warm or at room temperature.
Cake can be made 3 days ahead; wrap in plastic and chill.

Matcha Doughnuts 
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 3/4 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
2 cups cake flour, plus more for surface
1 large egg
1/2 cup buttermilk
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted Vegetable oil (for frying; about 4 cups)
1 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon matcha
1 cup powdered sugar
1 tablespoon matcha
1 large egg white
2 cups powdered sugar
2 teaspoons matcha
Pinch of salt

Whisk granulated sugar, baking powder, salt, and 2 cups flour in a large bowl. Make a well in the center and add egg, buttermilk, and butter. Using a wooden spoon or a spatula, gradually incorporate dry ingredients until a shaggy dough forms. Turn out onto a lightly floured surface and knead a couple of times or so until no wet spots remain (be careful not to overwork or doughnuts will be tough).
Roll out dough to 1/4 inch thick, sprinkling surface and/or dough with flour as needed to prevent sticking. Punch out as many rounds as you can with 3 1/4 inch cutter, then use 1 1/4 inch cutter to punch out center of each round. Gather doughnut holes and scraps and re-roll; repeat process until all dough has been used (3–4 times; you should have 8 doughnuts).
Fit a medium saucepan with thermometer. Pour in oil to come 4 inch up sides of saucepan and heat over medium until thermometer registers 325 degrees F. Working in batches, fry doughnuts until deep golden brown, about 3 minutes per side. Transfer to a wire rack lined with paper towels and let cool slightly.
Whisk together 1 cup granulated sugar and 1 tablespoon matcha until no lumps remain.
Whisk together 1 cup powdered sugar and 1 tablespoon matcha until no lumps remain.
Whisk together 1 large egg white, 2 cups powdered sugar, 2 teaspoons matcha, a pinch of salt, and 1 tablespoon water until smooth.
Toss still-warm doughnuts in Matcha Sugar Topping or Sweet Matcha Powder or dip in Matcha Glaze.

Spiced Honey Cake With Cream Cheese Frosting 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups gluten-free all-purpose baking flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/8 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
2/3 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1/2 cup honey
1 large egg
1 large egg yolk
1/2 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
1/2 cup fresh orange juice
1/2 cup whey or buttermilk
3 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup powdered sugar
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
Pinch of kosher salt
1/2 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
1 (13.5-ounce) can unsweetened coconut milk, cream separated from milk, room temperature
Bee pollen, fennel fronds, edible flowers, and berries (for serving; optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat a 9 inch cake pan with nonstick spray and line bottom with a parchment paper round. Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg in a large bowl to combine.
Combine granulated sugar, brown sugar, oil, honey, egg, and egg yolk in another large bowl. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean; discard pod. Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat mixture until pale and thickened, about 4 minutes. Reduce speed to medium-low and gradually pour in orange juice and whey. Beat until frothy, about 2 minutes. Reduce speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients; beat just until smooth and homogenous (it will be thin, like pancake batter).
Pour into prepared pan and bake until cake is golden brown and center springs back when gently pressed (a cake tester will not come out clean), 45–55 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack and let cool in pan, 20 minutes. Run a knife around edges of cake to loosen and invert onto rack; let cool completely.
Cake can be baked 3 days ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.
Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat cream cheese and butter in a medium bowl until smooth. Add powdered sugar, lemon zest, and salt and scrape in seeds from vanilla bean; discard pod. Beat on low speed until mixture is very light and thickened, about 2 minutes; scrape down sides of bowl. With motor running, add coconut cream by the tablespoonful and beat until very soft peaks form (save coconut milk for another use).
Pile frosting on top of cake and spread to edges (it's okay if it cascades over the sides). Decorate with bee pollen, fennel fronds, flowers, and berries, if desired.

Lime Cornmeal Bars with Blueberry Glaze 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
1/2 cup fine cornmeal
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
2 cups plus 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour, divided
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
1 tablespoon finely grated lime zest
4 large eggs plus 1 egg yolk
3/4 cup fresh lime juice
1 cup fresh blueberries
2 tablespoons granulated sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 9x13 inch baking pan and line with parchment paper, leaving a 1 inch overhang on both long sides.
Combine cornmeal, powdered sugar, salt, and 2 cups flour in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. Add 1 cup butter and beat until mixture resembles coarse meal and dough sticks together when you rub it with your fingers. Transfer dough to prepared pan and press into bottom and 1/2 inch up sides with your knuckles. Bake crust until golden, 18–20 minutes. Remove pan from oven and reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F.
While crust is baking, whisk granulated sugar, lime zest, and remaining 3 Tbsp. flour in a large bowl until combined. Add eggs and yolk and whisk until smooth. Whisk in lime juice and pour mixture onto hot crust (it's easiest to do this with pan on oven rack) and bake until topping is set, 25–30 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack to cool.
Combine blueberries, granulated sugar, and 3 Tbsp. water in a small saucepan. Bring to a boil and simmer over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until blueberries have burst and sauce is slightly thickened, about 20 minutes. Let cool slightly. Purée blueberry mixture in a blender until smooth and strain through a fine-mesh sieve into a small bowl. Let glaze cool.
Pour blueberry glaze over lime filling and spread to form an even, thin layer. Let cool completely, then chill until ready to serve. Lift bar out of pan using parchment overhang and cut into 24 squares.
Bars can be stored in an airtight container and chilled for up to 3 days.

Nana's Brownies 
1/2 cup (1 stick) salted butter, plus more for pan
1 cup all-purpose flour, plus more for pan
1 1/2 cups chopped walnuts (optional)
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
3 ounces bittersweet chocolate (preferably 72% cacao)
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 ounces bittersweet chocolate (preferably 72% cacao)
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) salted butter
1 tablespoon dark rum
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup walnuts (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour an 8x8 inch baking dish, shaking out excess flour. Toast walnuts, if using, on a rimmed baking sheet, tossing occasionally, until golden brown, 8–10 minutes; let cool. Increase oven temperature to 375 degrees F.
Whisk cocoa, salt, baking powder, and 1 cup flour in a medium bowl to combine and work out any lumps. Heat chocolate, sugar, and 1/2 cup butter in a large heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water (bowl should not touch water), stirring constantly, until smooth. Remove from heat and add eggs one at a time, beating vigorously with a wooden spoon to blend after each addition. Mix in vanilla, then add dry ingredients and mix until just combined. Fold in reserved walnuts (do not overmix).
Scrape batter into prepared pan; smooth top. Bake until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 30–40 minutes. Let cool.
Heat chocolate, butter, rum, cocoa powder, vanilla, and salt in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water (bowl should not touch water), stirring constantly, until smooth.
Pour glaze over brownies and top with walnuts, if using. Chill until glaze is set, at least 1 hour. Slice into 12 brownies.
Brownies can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled.

Chocolate Cherry Cola Cake 
1 Box Devil's Food cake mix
1 cup (8 ounces) cherry cola
1/2 cup vegetable oil
3 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
One 10-ounce jar maraschino cherries, drained (reserve 1/4 cup of the liquid) and chopped
1/3 cup butter, at room temperature
4 1/2 cups powdered sugar, sifted
1/4 cup milk
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
One 7-ounce jar marshmallow crème
18 fresh cherries, chopped

1. Make the cake: Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a 9 x 13- inch cake pan.
2. Whisk together the cake mix, cherry cola, oil, eggs, vanilla, and the reserved cherry juice in a large bowl until well combined. Stir in the maraschino cherries. Pour the batter into the cake pan and bake until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, 30 to 35 minutes. Cool in the pan for at least 1 hour.
3. Make the frosting: Using an electric mixer, beat the butter in a large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add 2 cups of the powdered sugar. Slowly beat in the milk and vanilla, then beat in the remaining powdered sugar. Add the marshmallow crème and mix well, then fold in the cherries. Frost the cooled cake in the pan.

Cherry, Pistachio & Coconut Cake 
1/2 cup/100g sugar, plus 1 1/2 tbsp/20g for the topping
1/3 cup/90g light brown sugar
1 1/4 cup/180g ground almonds
1/4 cup/30g ground pistachios
1/2 cup/45g desiccated coconut
1/3 cup plus 1 tbsp/50g self-rising flour (preferably Gold Medal brand)
A pinch of salt
1 1/4 tsp ground mahleb
10 tbsp/150g butter, melted
3 large eggs
2 cups/300g cherries
Scant 1/2 cup/50g roughly chopped pistachios, for the topping

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F and lightly grease a 9 in/24cm diameter ring cake tin with butter.
Mix all the dry ingredients together in a large bowl. Pour over the melted butter and mix in the eggs. Spoon the batter into the pre-greased tin and smooth down.
Remove the pits from the cherries—you can do this with a cherry pitter or by just pulling them apart and popping the pits out with your fingers. I like to do this over the cake tin, so that any juice drips onto the cake and adds color. Drop the pitted cherries onto the batter and sprinkle the top of the cake with the remaining 1 1/2 tbsp/20g of sugar and the roughly chopped pistachios. Bake in the center of the oven for 25–30 minutes, then turn the cake around and bake for a further 8–10 minutes, until the cake between the cherries goes all golden.
Allow the cake to cool in the tin, as it needs time to settle, then gently remove by running a knife around the edges. Covered well, it will keep in the fridge for up to a week (not much chance of that happening), but for the best flavor, allow it to return to room temperature before eating.

Pecan Praline Thumbprints 
1 3/4 cups (6 ounces) toasted, salted pecan pieces
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1 cup (8 ounces) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
3/4 teaspoon sea salt flakes
3/4 cup (6 ounces) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/2 cup maple syrup
1/2 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon sea salt flakes
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 1/4 cups (4 1/2 ounces) toasted, salted pecan pieces

In a food processor, pulse the pecans and 1/4 cup of the granulated sugar until a fine meal forms but before the nuts start to release their oils.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, mix the butter briefly on medium speed for 5 to 10 seconds. Add the remaining 1/2 cup granulated sugar and beat together until the butter mixture is aerated and pale in color, approximately 4 minutes. Briefly beat in the vanilla. Scrape the sides and bottom of the bowl with a rubber spatula to bring the batter together.
In a bowl, whisk together the flour and salts. Add the dry ingredients all at once and mix on low speed until the dough comes together but still looks shaggy, approximately 30 seconds. Scrape the sides and bottom of the bowl to bring the batter together. Mix for another 10 seconds on medium speed. Remove the bowl from the stand mixer. With a plastic bench scraper, bring the dough completely together by hand.
Stretch out a long sheet of plastic wrap on a work surface and put the dough on top. Pat into an 8-inch square, using the bench scraper to square off the sides. Wrap tightly and refrigerate until chilled throughout, at least 30 minutes or up to 3 days.
Heat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line a couple of half sheet (13 by 18-inch) pans with parchment.
Cut the dough into 6 even strips. Roll the strips back and forth into logs to round out the edges. Using the top half of your thumb as a guide, cut each log into 8 pieces but keep the log together. Roll the logs again to round out the edges, then pull the pieces apart and place cut-side up on the prepared pans, evenly spacing up to 20 cookies per pan. With the tip of your index finger, make an indentation into the center of each cookie.
Bake one pan at a time for 8 minutes. Remove the pan from the oven and tap down the centers with the rounded end of a wooden spoon or a cocktail muddler. Rotate the pan and bake until the cookies have slight cracks on the top and are set, another 4 to 6 minutes. When ready, the cookies will have set around the edges and you will be able to gently move them, but they still will be soft. Let the cookies cool completely on the pan. Repeat with the remaining pan.
While the cookies are baking, start the praline. In a pot, melt the butter over medium heat. Mix in the maple syrup, sugars, vanilla, and salts and stir until homogeneous. Bring the mixture to a boil and boil for 3 minutes to thicken. Pour in the heavy cream, stirring to combine. Let the mixture reduce for 3 to 4 minutes, or until it lightly coats the back of a spoon. Stir in the nuts. You will have approximately 2 1/2 cups of praline.
While the thumbprints are still warm, use a small spoon to scoop the goopy praline into the centers. (It is okay if some spills over on the sides.) Refrigerate until set, approximately 30 minutes.

Coffee Coffee Coffee Cake 
1 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 cup chilled unsalted butter, cubed
1/4 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1/4 cup powdered sugar
2 teaspoons instant espresso powder
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
6 ounces semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
4 ounces pecans (about 3/4 cup), lightly toasted and coarsely chopped
1/4 cup strong brewed coffee
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for pan
2 tablespoons instant espresso powder
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
3/4 cup strong brewed coffee, room temperature
1/2 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups granulated sugar
3 large eggs plus 1 egg yolk, room temperature
1 cup powdered sugar
2 tablespoons coffee liqueur
1 tablespoon sour cream
A 10-inch tube pan

Using your fingers, combine flour, butter, brown sugar, powdered sugar, espresso powder, and salt in a medium bowl until mixture sticks together when pressed. Chill until ready to use.
Melt chocolate and butter in a heatproof bowl set over a pot of simmering water (water should not touch bowl) or in the top of a double boiler over medium heat. Remove from heat and stir in pecans, coffee, and granulated sugar.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour tube pan, tapping out excess flour. Whisk 2 1/2 cups flour, espresso powder, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, salt, and cardamom in a medium bowl. Whisk coffee, sour cream, and vanilla in another medium bowl.
Beat granulated sugar and 1/2 cup butter in a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in eggs and egg yolk one at a time, mixing well after each addition. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with coffee mixture in 2 additions, scraping down sides of bowl after each addition.
Scrape one-third of the batter into prepared pan; smooth the surface. Drizzle half of the chocolate swirl mixture over. Add another one-third of the batter; smooth the surface. Drizzle the remaining chocolate swirl mixture over, then scrape in the remaining batter; smooth the surface. Sprinkle crumb topping over. Bake cake until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean and cake springs back when pressed, 40–50 minutes. Let cool completely in pan on a wire rack.
Run a butter knife around the perimeter of pan to loosen cake. Gently invert cake onto a large plate, then return cake (crumb side up) to rack.
When cake is cool, prepare the glaze. Whisk powdered sugar, coffee liqueur, and sour cream in a medium bowl. Using a spoon, drizzle glaze over cooled cake, holding the spoon a few inches above the cake.
Cake can be made up to two days before serving. Store wrapped in plastic until ready to serve.

Absinthe's Golden Yogurt Cake 
1 1/2 cups sifted all-purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup plain whole-milk yogurt
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon, Meyer lemon, or orange zest, or a combination
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/8 teaspoon kosher or sea salt
3 eggs
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 cup plain drained yogurt or Greek yogurt (not nonfat)
1/4 cup honey
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup heavy cream, whipped to firm peaks

Preheat an oven to 350 degrees F. Butter the bottom and sides of a 9-inch round cake pan with 2-inch sides. Line the bottom with parchment paper and dust the sides with flour, shaking out the excess.
Sift together the flour and baking powder in a bowl.
In a bowl, whisk together the yogurt, oil, zest, vanilla, and salt.
In a stand mixer fitted with a whip, beat the eggs on medium speed until frothy and well blended. Add the sugar gradually. Raise the speed to medium-high and whip until the sugar dissolves and the mixture is thick and pale, stopping the machine to scrape down the sides of the bowl at least once. Lower the mixer speed and add the yogurt mixture gradually. Add the dry ingredients gradually and beat just until well blended.
Pour the batter into the prepared cake pan, spreading it evenly. Bake on a center rack until the surface is golden brown and firm to the touch and a toothpick comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool on a rack for 10 minutes, and then unmold and finish cooling, top side up, on the rack.
To make the yogurt cream: In a bowl, whisk together the yogurt, honey, and vanilla. Gently fold in the whipped cream.
Slice the cake into wedges to serve, topping each portion with a dollop of the yogurt cream, if desired.

Hibiscus Pavlova with Lemon-Hibiscus Cream 
1/2 cup plus 2 teaspoons superfine sugar, divided
2 teaspoons cornstarch
1/8 teaspoon fine sea salt
6 tablespoons dried hibiscus flowers (available at natural food stores, Latin or Middle Eastern markets, or online) or 7 hibiscus tea bags
3 large egg whites, room temperature
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar or 3/4 teaspoon distilled white vinegar
2 tablespoons dried hibiscus flowers or 2 hibiscus tea bags
1/4 cup superfine sugar
1 cup cold heavy cream
3 tablespoons homemade or store-bought lemon curd
2 tablespoons sour cream
Pinch of fine sea salt

Preheat oven to 250 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. In a small bowl, whisk together 2 tsp. superfine sugar, cornstarch, and salt, breaking up any lumps; set aside.
Grind flowers or tea leaves (cut open bags, remove tea, and discard bags) in a spice mill or food processor until very finely ground; set aside.
Using an electric mixer fitted with a whisk attachment, beat egg whites and cream of tartar or vinegar on medium-high speed until the mixture transforms from frothy soapsuds to soft, opaque peaks, about 3 minutes. You should see tracks from the whisk on the surface of the whites.
Add the remaining 1/2 cup sugar slowly, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating to incorporate fully before adding the next spoonful, 5–8 minutes total. Continue to beat on medium-high speed until stiff, glossy peaks form, about 2 minutes more. Test to see if sugar is fully dissolved by rubbing a small amount between your fingertips. If it still feels gritty, keep beating until dissolved.
Sprinkle the sugar, cornstarch, and salt mixture over egg whites and fold in gently with a spatula. Using a fine-mesh strainer, sift 1 Tbsp. reserved ground tea over mixture and fold in gently. Reserve remaining ground tea.
Using a large spoon, divide meringue into 6 even mounds on the prepared baking sheet. Using the back of the spoon, make a small well in the center of each meringue. Lightly dust 1 tsp. reserved ground tea with fine-mesh strainer over meringues. Reserve remaining ground tea.
Bake, rotating halfway through cooking time, until outsides are dry and a very pale cream color, 65–70 minutes. Turn oven off and leave door slightly ajar with meringues inside, letting them cool completely, at least 2 hours or up to overnight.
Bring 1 cup water to a boil in a small pot. Remove from heat and steep dried hibiscus flowers or tea bags, 4–5 minutes. Strain tea or discard tea bags; if straining, strain into a medium bowl, then return tea to pot. Add sugar and bring to a boil over high heat. Reduce the liquid, stirring occasionally, until a scant 1/4 cup liquid is left, 8–11 minutes—it should be thick with a syrupy consistency. Transfer to a small bowl and chill until cold, about 20 minutes.
Using an electric mixer fitted with a whisk attachment, beat cream on medium-low speed in a large bowl until very soft peaks form. Reduce speed to low and gently beat in lemon curd, sour cream, and salt. If necessary, continue whipping until soft peaks return. Drizzle 1 Tbsp. chilled hibiscus syrup over whipped cream. Using a spatula, marble syrup throughout cream, creating dark pink streaks rather than a solid pink cream.
Divide meringues among 6 dessert plates, then top each with a dollop of lemon-hibiscus cream. Using a fine-mesh strainer, lightly dust top of each pavlova with 1 tsp. reserved ground tea total, if desired, and serve immediately.

Carrot-Walnut Loaf Cake 
1 cup vegetable oil, plus more
1 1/4 cups plus 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour; plus more
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup golden raisins
1/2 cup walnuts, coarsely chopped
3 large eggs
1 cup granulated sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
8 ounces carrots, coarsely grated (about 2 cups)
2 teaspoons light brown sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly oil and flour a 9x5 inch loaf pan. Whisk baking powder, cinnamon, salt, and 1 1/4 cups flour in a small bowl. Toss raisins, walnuts, and remaining 1 tablespoon flour in another bowl.
Using an electric mixer on mediumhigh speed, beat eggs and granulated sugar in a medium bowl until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. With mixer running, gradually drizzle in 1 cup oil, then add vanilla. Fold in dry ingredients, raisin mixture, and carrots; scrape batter into prepared pan. Sprinkle with brown sugar.
Bake cake until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 65–75 minutes. Let cool slightly in pan, then turn out onto a wire rack to cool completely.
Bake up to 2 days ahead. Store wrapped at room temperature.

Quinoa PB&J; Cookies 
Cooking spray or vegetable oil, if needed
1 cup (4 ounces/120 grams) confectioners' sugar
1/2 cup (4 ounces/120 grams) packed dark brown sugar
8 tablespoons (4 ounces/120 grams) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup (10 ounces/300 grams) creamy peanut butter
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups (6 ounces/180 grams) quinoa flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (5 ounces/165 grams) strawberry jam or grape jelly

1. Adjust an oven rack to the middle position and preheat the oven to 350 degrees F/175 degrees C. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with silicone baking mats or parchment paper. If using parchment paper, lightly coat it with vegetable oil or cooking spray.
2. With an electric mixer, beat together the confectioners' sugar, dark brown sugar, butter, and peanut butter until smooth. Beat in the vanilla.
3. In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Beat the flour mixture into the peanut butter mixture a small amount at a time.
4. Using a 1-tablespoon/15-milliliter measuring spoon or equal capacity ice cream scooper, scoop the dough onto the prepared baking sheets, placing each cookie about 1 1/2 inches/4 centimeters apart. Roll the dough between your palms and make a dip with your thumb in each. Fill each dip with 1/2 teaspoon jam or jelly.
5. Bake the cookies until light golden, about 15 minutes, rotating the baking sheet halfway through the baking time. Transfer the baking sheet to a cooling rack and cool completely before serving.

Malted Chocolate Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/3 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 cup malted milk powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
2 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
1 1/2 cups plus 2 tablespoons granulated sugar
1 cup buttermilk
1/3 cup vegetable oil
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup coffee, cooled, divided
2 tablespoons light brown sugar
3 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup heavy cream
1/4 cup malted milk powder
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
Chocolate pearls; coarsely chopped malt balls (for serving; optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat a 9x5 inch loaf pan with nonstick spray, then line with parchment paper, leaving overhang on long sides. Whisk flour, cocoa powder, malted milk powder, salt, baking soda, and baking powder in a large bowl.
Whisk eggs, egg yolk, and 1 1/2 cups granulated sugar in a medium bowl just to blend. Add buttermilk, oil, vanilla extract, and 1/2 cup coffee, whisking just to blend. Gradually add buttermilk mixture to dry ingredients, stirring with a rubber spatula or a wooden spoon until just combined (batter will be a little lumpy; you don't want to overmix).
Scrape batter into prepared pan (hold back a little if using a slightly smaller loaf pan) and smooth surface. Bake until cake pulls away from sides of pan and a tester inserted into center comes out clean, 60–70 minutes.
Meanwhile, combine brown sugar, remaining 1/4 cup coffee, and remaining 2 tablespoons granulated sugar in a small bowl, stirring to dissolve sugar.
Transfer cake pan to a wire rack set inside a rimmed baking sheet and brush with coffee mixture (use all of it). Let cake cool completely in pan before turning out onto rack.
Place chocolate and vanilla in a medium bowl. Bring cream, malted milk powder, and salt to a bare simmer in a small saucepan. Pour over chocolate mixture and let sit 5 minutes.
Gently stir with a rubber spatula until chocolate is melted and mixture is combined. While still warm, pour glaze over turned-out cake on wire rack, letting it drip over the sides (any extra glaze will pool in baking sheet). Decorate with chocolate pearls and malt balls, if desired. Let cake sit until glaze is set, about 30 minutes.
Cake can be baked and glazed 3 days ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.

Pavlovas with Fresh Berries 
1 1/4 cups sugar
6 large egg whites
Pinch of cream of tartar
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise, or 2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup chopped almonds, walnuts, or pistachios, and/or 3 tablespoons poppy seeds
1/4 cup sugar
36 ounces raspberries and/or blackberries (about 6 cups), divided
1 1/4 cups heavy cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Scatter sugar in a shallow baking dish and bake 10 minutes. After 8 minutes, using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat egg whites and cream of tartar in a large bowl until foamy.
Remove sugar from oven and decrease temperature to 200 degrees F. With the mixer running, gradually stream sugar into egg whites. Add salt and beat until stiff peaks form and bowl is barely warm to the touch. (Heads up: This can take as much as 10 minutes with a stand mixer and up to 20 minutes with a handheld mixer.) Scrape in vanilla seeds, reserve pod for another use, and beat just to combine.
Scoop large spoonfuls of meringue onto 2 parchment-lined baking sheets to make 12 mounds. Make a slight indentation in the center of each mound with the back of the spoon, pushing out to create 3 inch-diameter rounds. Top the border of meringues with nuts and/or poppy seeds, as desired.
Bake meringues until dry and firm, about 2 hours and 15 minutes. Turn off oven and use a wooden spoon to prop door ajar. Let meringues cool completely in oven.
Meringues can be made 1 day ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.
Combine sugar and 2 cups berries in a medium bowl and mash together with a fork until sugar is dissolved and mixture is bright in color and pourable.
Whisk cream in a medium bowl to medium peaks. Spoon whipped cream into centers of meringues, top with remaining berries, then drizzle with sauce.
Berry sauce can be made 4 hours ahead. Store tightly covered at room temperature.

S'mores Sandwich Cookies 
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 cup whole wheat flour
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
6 tablespoons honey
1 large egg
1 egg yolk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
16 ounces bittersweet chocolate, coarsely chopped (about 3 cups), divided
24 marshmallows

Whisk all-purpose flour, whole wheat flour, cinnamon, baking soda, and salt in a small bowl.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar in a large bowl until pale and fluffy, 2–3 minutes. Add honey and beat on medium to combine. Add egg, egg yolk, and vanilla and beat to combine, scraping down sides as needed. Reduce speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients, scraping down sides as needed, until just blended, then stir in half of the chocolate. Cover dough and chill at least 1 hour or up to overnight.
Arrange racks in middle and upper third of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment or wax paper. Scoop out dough by the heaping tablespoonful, roll into a balls, and arrange 3 inches apart, 6 on each sheet.
Bake cookies, swapping the trays and rotating them once halfway through, until golden, 10–11 minutes. Transfer cookies to a wire rack to cool and repeat with second batch. Let cookies cool.
Place remaining 8 ounces chocolate in a microwave-safe bowl and heat 30 seconds. Stir, then heat 30 seconds more. Repeat until chocolate is melted through. Turn cookies over and, using a small spatula, spread a thin layer of chocolate on flat sides of cookies. Chill cookies to let chocolate set, at least 15 minutes.
Place marshmallows onto skewers and toast over a flame. Place 2 toasted marshmallows on chocolate side of 1 cookie and top with chocolate side of another cookie to make a sandwich. Repeat with remaining marshmallows and cookies.
Cookies can be baked, covered with chocolate, and chilled (without marshmallows) in an airtight container for up to 5 days or frozen for up to 1 month.

Strawberry-Almond Cornmeal Cake 
1/2 cup raw skin-on almonds
2 ounces freeze-dried strawberries
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/3 cup cornmeal
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
6 ounces almond paste
1 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs
1 pound strawberries, hulled, half halved, half quartered
Powdered sugar (for serving)
A 9 inch springform pan

Pulse almonds in a food processor until about the size of grains of rice. Add strawberries and pulse to a coarse powder. Add flour, sugar, and salt and pulse just to blend. Add butter and process until no dry spots remain.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat pan with nonstick spray. Whisk flour, cornmeal, baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer on medium speed, break up almond paste in a large bowl until crumbly. Add sugar and butter and mix until blended, about 2 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, mixing well to incorporate after each addition. Increase speed to medium-high and beat until mixture is light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Reduce speed to low and mix in dry ingredients.
Scrape batter into pan; scatter strawberries over top, followed by clumps of crumble. Bake cake until top is golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 80–90 minutes. Let cool in pan before unmolding. Dust with powdered sugar just before serving.
Cake can be baked 2 days ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.

Chocolate Molten Lava Cakes 
1/2 cup chocolate chips or chopped chocolate
1/3 cup unsalted butter, plus more for greasing the pans
1/4 cup white sugar
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
2 large eggs
cocoa powder, for dusting

1. Preheat the oven to 400F.
2. Grease the inside of 4 8-ounce small ramekins with butter, dust with cocoa powder, and tap out any extra.
3. Place the chocolate chips and butter in a medium microwave-safe bowl and microwave in 30 second increments, stirring, until melted and smooth.
4. Stir the sugar and flour into the chocolate mixture.
5. Add in the eggs and mix until smooth.
6. Pour the batter into the four cups, they should be about 1/2 full. Place the baking cups on a baking sheet.
7. Bake for 16–18 minutes, until the top and edges are set, but center is still jiggly. Let cool slightly for 2–3 minutes. Be careful as ramekins may still be hot. Serve immediately.

Rhubarb-Pistachio Bundt Cake With Rose Glaze 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for pan
2 1/4 cups granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
5 large eggs, room temperature
2 teaspoons rose water
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 cup plain yogurt
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons raw pistachios, toasted and chopped
8 ounces rhubarb (2-3 stalks), trimmed
2 1/2 cups powdered sugar
2 tablespoons milk
1 tablespoon rose water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons dried rose petals
2 tablespoons raw pistachios, toasted and chopped
12-cup Bundt pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour Bundt pan, tapping out excess flour.
Rub together granulated sugar and lemon zest with your fingers in a large bowl until fragrant. Using an electric mixer on medium speed, cream lemon sugar and 3/4 cup butter until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, scraping down sides of bowl and beating well between each addition. Beat in rose water and vanilla extract on medium-low speed until just combined.
Whisk 2 1/4 cups flour, salt, baking powder, and baking soda in another large bowl. With mixer on low, add dry ingredients to lemon sugar mixture in 3 additions, alternating with yogurt in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients, scraping down sides and bottom of bowl as needed. Fold in pistachios.
Cut rhubarb crosswise into 2 1/2 inch pieces. Using a mandoline set to 1/4 inch or a very sharp knife, slice rhubarb lengthwise, maintaining as much red skin on stalks as possible.
Pour one-third of the batter into prepared pan and smooth surface. Add half of the rhubarb, nestling pieces side by side to form a thick ring on top of batter. Pour another third of the batter on top of rhubarb layer; smooth surface. Repeat with remaining rhubarb and batter.
Bake cake until the surface is cracked and golden brown, springs back to the touch, and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 50–60 minutes. Let cake rest in pan 10 minutes, then turn out onto a cooling rack.
Whisk powdered sugar, milk, rose water, vanilla extract, and salt in a medium bowl until well combined. Glaze should be pourable but stiff enough to hold its shape-it can be thickened with more powdered sugar or thinned with more milk if needed.
Using a spoon, drizzle rose glaze over cooled cake, holding the spoon a few inches above the cake. While glaze is still wet, sprinkle rose petals and pistachios on top.
Cake can be baked, cooled, wrapped in plastic, and stored at room temperature up to 3 days. Glaze can be made and stored in an airtight container at room temperature up to 5 days.

Black-and-White Pancake Cake 
1 batch of Maple Chocolate Cake batter
1/2 cup (4 ounces/113 grams) water
1/2 cup (4 1/4 ounces/120 grams) heavy cream, chilled
1/2 cup (4 ounces/113 grams) mascarpone cheese, at room temperature
1 1/2 tablespoons (1 1/8 ounces/32 grams) pure maple syrup (dark or very dark preferred)*
1 teaspoon vanilla bean paste or pure vanilla extract
5 ounces (142 grams) bittersweet chocolate (60% to 70% cacao), chopped
6 tablespoons (3 ounces/85 grams) heavy cream
A cast-iron griddle, about 10 × 17 inches in size**
A very thin, flexible metal spatula, such as a fish spatula

1. Preheat a griddle over low heat for at least 10 minutes. (You want the griddle nice and hot over as low heat as possible to avoid burning the pancakes and to give them ample time to cook through.)
2. Make the pancakes: Whip up a batch of Maple Chocolate Cake, adding the water to the wet ingredients before whisking the batter until smooth.
3. Spray the griddle generously with nonstick spray. Making 2 pancakes at a time, pour two 1/2-cup scoops of batter onto the griddle. Use the back of a spoon to gently swirl and coax the pancakes into 7-inch circles. Cook the pancakes until the edges appear dry and set and bubbles are no longer popping on the surfaces, about 4 minutes on the first side. Use a thin, flexible metal spatula to gently flip the pancakes. Cook about 2 minutes more, or until the centers of the pancakes spring back when lightly touched. Remove the layers to wire racks to cool completely. Repeat the batter scooping and cooking process until you have 8 cake layers.
4. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper and place 4 cake layers in a single layer on each sheet. Chill in the refrigerator for 10 to 15 minutes.
5. Make the cream filling: Pour the cream into a medium bowl. Whip the cream on high speed to stiff peaks. In a separate medium bowl, place the mascarpone, maple syrup, and vanilla bean paste. Beat on low speed, just until the mixture is smooth and begins to thicken, about 30 seconds-don't overbeat, or the mascarpone will seize. Gently fold in the whipped cream until smooth.
6. Make the ganache filling: Combine the bittersweet chocolate with the cream in a small heatproof bowl. Microwave on high power for 45 to 60 seconds. Whisk the ganache until the chocolate is melted and the ganache is smooth and the texture of chocolate pudding. Remove about 2 tablespoons of ganache to a small bowl and set aside for garnish.
7. To assemble the cake, remove the pancake layers from the refrigerator. Inspect the layers; choose the most handsome to be the top layer and set it aside. Place 1 cake layer on a serving platter or cake stand. Dollop on 1/3 cup ofthe maple mascarpone cream and use a small offset spatula to smooth it out, with a l/2-inch border all around. Place a second layer on top, and press lightly to help it adhere. Spread about 2 1/2 tablespoons of ganache onto the layer, also with a 1/2-inch border around the cake. Continue the layering process 6 more times, alternating maple mascarpone cream and chocolate ganache with the layers, placing the best-looking cake layer on top.
8. To the remaining chocolate ganache, add a drizzle of cream, only about l/2 teaspoon or so, just enough to thin itto a honeylike consistency (warm the ganache in the microwave for about lO seconds or so to loosen it up first, if necessary). Drizzle the ganache artfully over the cake. Chill the cake for about 30 minutes before serving. This cake can be made up to 1 day in advance (let it soften on the counter for 15 minutes before slicing).

Pistachio-Cream Sandwich Cookies 
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup pistachio paste
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 large eggs, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup pistachio paste
1/3 cup powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat butter, granulated sugar, and pistachio paste in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Mix in vanilla, then eggs, one at a time, beating to incorporate completely after each addition. Reduce speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients; mix just until combined.
Scoop heaping tablespoonfuls of dough onto parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing 3 inch apart. Bake cookies until golden, 12–15 minutes. Let cool on baking sheets 10 minutes, then transfer to wire racks and let cool completely.
Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat butter, pistachio paste, powdered sugar, vanilla, and salt until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes.
Spread 1 scant tablespoonful pistachio cream onto flat side of a cookie. Top with another cookie, flat side down; press lightly to even out filling. Repeat with remaining cookies and pistachio cream.
Cookies can be made 1 day ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.

Raspberry, Whiskey & Oat Cheesecake 
150 grams (5.25 oz) oatcakes
25 grams (5 tbsp) regular rolled oats
1 tablespoon + 2 teaspoons superfine sugar
100 grams (7 tbsp) unsalted butter
400 grams (14 oz) full-fat cream cheese
1/2 cup + 2 tablespoons sour cream
1/4 cup honey
100 grams (7 tbsp) superfine sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 to 3 tablespoons whiskey
3 large eggs
200 to 300 grams (1 1/2 to 2 1/2 c) fresh raspberries
8-inch round removable bottom or springform pan

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
To make the crust, crush the oatcakes with a rolling pin or in a food processor until sandy and no chunks remain. Stir in the rolled oats and sugar. Melt the butter over low heat in a small pan, then add it to the crushed oatcakes and stir to combine. Add a bit more butter if the mixture feels dry; it needs to be moist enough to hold together in small clumps. Spoon it into the pan and press firmly with the back of a spoon. Bake for 10 to 15 minutes, until just set (it will firm as it cools). Set aside while you prepare the filling. Turn the oven down to 250 degrees F.
To make the filling, beat the cream cheese in a large bowl until smooth. Add the sour cream and stir to combine, then add the honey, sugar, and vanilla extract. Stir in the whiskey to taste. (You can add a little extra, or none at all, if you prefer.) Lightly whisk the eggs in a separate bowl, then gradually add them to the cream cheese mixture while stirring continuously to prevent lumps from forming. The mixture should be thick and smooth.
Pour the filling over the pre-baked crust. Bake for about 1 1/2 hours, until the filling is set and has just the slightest wobble in the center. Because it's baked at such a low temperature, it should be barely colored, just deepening to a light gold. Let cool to room temperature in the pan, then unmold and chill.
Shortly before serving, arrange the raspberries on top of the cheesecake, fat ends down and tapered bottoms upward. You can cover with the raspberries earlier, but there's a risk that, if they're particularly ripe, their juices will seep into the creamy cheesecake.

Buckwheat Shortcakes with Earl-Grey Apricot Compote and Whipped Cream 
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons (5 ounces) all-purpose flour
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons (1.75 ounces) buckwheat flour
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 3/4 teaspoons baking powder, sifted if lumpy
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup heavy cream, plus extra for brushing
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, frozen at least 1 hour and grated on a box grater
Turbinado sugar, for sprinkling
1 cup (6 ounces) dried apricots, sliced in half lengthwise
2 Earl Grey teabags
1 vanilla bean, slit lengthwise
3 tablespoons honey
1 1/4 cups heavy cream
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
Stand mixer with whisk attachment, electric hand mixer, or whisk (for whipped cream), 2 1/4-inch round biscuit cutter or equally sized straight-sided glass

Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with two layers of parchment paper.
In a large bowl, thoroughly whisk the flours, sugar, baking powder, and salt. Make a well in the center and pour the cream into it (set the measuring cup aside) and add the grated frozen butter. Use a rubber spatula to push the dry ingredients from the sides of the bowl into the well, cutting and turning the mixture just until the dry ingredients are almost entirely moistened and the dough looks rough and shaggy. Gather the dough into a ball and knead it gently against the sides of the bowl five or so times, pressing loose pieces into the dough, until it just holds together (it should not be smooth) and the bowl is fairly clean.
Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured board and pat into a circle about 3/4-inch thick. Using the biscuit cutter or an overturned glass, and re-patting the dough as needed, cut the dough into 8 even rounds. Place them at least 1 inch apart on the baking sheet. Brush the tops with the cream left in the bottom of the measuring cup or with a little milk, and sprinkle generously with turbinado sugar.
Bake the shortcakes until the tops are just barely golden brown, 10 to 12 minutes. Immediately transfer to a wire rack to cool.
Set a medium saucepan with 2 cups water over high heat and bring to a boil. Remove from heat, add tea bags, and let steep 3 minutes. Remove tea bags and add apricots, honey, and vanilla bean. Return to stove and bring to a simmer over medium-low heat; cook until the apricots are soft and the liquid has reduced to a thick syrup, 15 to 20 minutes. Remove vanilla bean.
Meanwhile, in the chilled bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, or using a medium mixing bowl and a handheld electric mixer or a whisk, whip the cream, adding the sugar as it begins to thicken. Continue beating until it holds a soft shape—not too stiff. (The cream can be covered and refrigerated for up to several hours. If liquid separates from the cream, whisk briefly before using.)
To assemble the shortcakes, gently pull each shortcake apart horizontally into two equal halves. Place the bottom halves on serving plates. Top each with a generous scoop of apricot compote (about 2 tablespoons) and a dollop of whipped cream. Cover with the tops of the biscuits and serve.

Rhubarb-Almond Cake 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
3/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar, plus more for pan
1 pound rhubarb stalks, trimmed
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup blanched almonds
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
2 large eggs
1/4 cup plain Greek yogurt or sour cream
One 11x8 inch tart pan or one 9 inch-diameter tart pan with removable bottom.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees . Butter tart pan and sprinkle with sugar, tapping out excess. Slice rhubarb in half lengthwise (quarter if very large). Set 8 of the prettiest pieces aside for the top of the cake; chop remaining rhubarb into 1/2 inch pieces. Pulse flour, almonds, baking powder, and salt in a food processor until almonds are finely ground (texture should be sandy).
Place 1 cup butter and 3/4 cup sugar in a large bowl. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean; reserve pod for another use. Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add eggs, one at a time, beating to blend first egg before adding second. Beat until mixture is pale and fluffy, about 4 minutes.
Reduce speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients, followed by yogurt. Beat, scraping down the sides of bowl as needed, just to combine (batter will be thick). Fold in chopped rhubarb and scrape batter into prepared pan. Smooth batter and arrange reserved rhubarb over top; sprinkle with remaining 3 tablespoons sugar.
Place tart pan on a large rimmed baking sheet (to catch any rogue juices) and bake, rotating once, until cake is golden brown and rhubarb on top is soft and beginning to brown, 70–80 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack and let cake cool before removing from pan.
Do ahead: Cake can be baked 3 days ahead. Keep tightly wrapped at room temperature.

Miso Doughnuts 
2 teaspoons red miso
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
1 1/4 ounces envelope active dry yeast (about 2 1/4 teaspoons)
1 large egg, room temperature
1 large egg yolk, room temperature
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
3 tablespoons whole milk, room temperature
3 tablespoons white miso
1 cup bread flour
1 cup all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
Vegetable oil (for frying; about 8 cups)
1 1/2 inch-diameter biscuit cutter; a deep-fry thermometer

Pulse red miso and 1/2 cup sugar in a food processor until mixture resembles brown sugar. Spread out evenly on a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet and let sit until dry, 2-2 1/2 hours. Pulse in food processor until no clumps remain. Transfer miso sugar to a medium bowl.
Combine 1 tablespoon sugar and 1/4 cup warm water in a small bowl. Sprinkle yeast over and let sit until foamy, 5-10 minutes.
Beat egg, egg yolk, butter, milk, white miso, and remaining 1/4 cup sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with whisk attachment (or use a whisk and a medium bowl) until miso breaks up into small pieces and mixture is almost smooth. Add yeast mixture along with bread flour and 1 cup all-purpose flour and mix until a shaggy ball forms (or, use a sturdy wooden spoon and some effort).
Switch to dough hook and mix on medium until dough is soft, smooth, elastic, and climbing up hook, 5-7 minutes. (Or, knead on a lightly floured surface, 8-10 minutes.) If dough is wet, add more all-purpose flour as needed.
Place dough in a large bowl lightly coated with nonstick spray. Cover and let sit in a warm place until nearly doubled in size, 1-2 hours.
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper; lightly flour. Turn out dough onto a lightly floured surface and pat out to 1 inch thick. Punch out rounds with biscuit cutter. Repeat with scraps. Transfer rounds to prepared baking sheet, cover loosely, and let rise in a warm place until almost doubled in size, 45-60 minutes.
Pour oil into a large heavy saucepan to a depth of 2 inch. Heat over medium-high until thermometer registers 325 degrees . Working in batches, fry doughnuts until deep golden brown, about 3 minutes per side. Transfer to paper towels and let cool slightly before tossing in miso sugar.
Do ahead: Dough (before rise) can be made 1 day ahead; cover and chill.

Apple Applesauce Muffins 
1 1/2 cups white whole wheat flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 cup unsweetened applesauce
1/2 cup buttermilk
1/2 cup honey
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cups peeled and chopped apples (about 2 medium apples)

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
In a bowl, whisk together the flour, baking powder, salt, and cinnamon.
In a separate bowl, whisk together the applesauce, buttermilk, honey, egg, and vanilla.
Stir the dry ingredients into the wet ingredients and mix until just combined. Fold in the apples.
Pour batter into greased muffin cups, about 3/4 full and bake 20 minutes, or until a wooden pick inserted in the center comes out clean.

Gluten-Free Vegan Oatmeal Raisin Cookies 
1 tablespoon ground flax seed
3 tablespoons water
2 cups gluten free old fashioned oats
1 cup gluten free all purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) vegan butter, softened (i used earth's balance)
1/2 cup white sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup raisins

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F.
In a small bowl, whisk together the flax and water. Let sit for 2 minutes.
In a separate bowl, whisk together the oats, flour, cinnamon, baking soda and salt.
In the bowl of a standing mixer, or with an electric mixer, cream together the butter and sugar until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add the flax mixture and vanilla extract and stir until combined.
Gradually add the flour mixture until just combined. Add the raisins and stir to thoroughly combine.
Using a 2 tablespoon measure, place cookie dough onto Silpat or parchment-lined baking sheet. Bake for 15-20 minutes, or until golden brown.

Chocolate-Rye Crumb Cake 
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup rye flour
3 tablespoons cacao nibs
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 cup chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 cup rye flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/3 cup (packed) light brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup buttermilk
1/4 cup plain whole-milk Greek yogurt

Whisk granulated sugar, all-purpose flour, rye flour, cacao nibs, cocoa powder, and salt in a medium bowl until blended. Work in butter with your fingers to form large clumps.there should be no dry spots. Cover and chill.
Do ahead: Crumble can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees . Coat a 9 inch-diameter cake pan with nonstick spray and line with a parchment round. Whisk all-purpose flour, rye flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a medium bowl.
Using an electric mixer on mediumhigh speed, beat butter, granulated sugar, and brown sugar in a medium bowl until light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Scrape down sides of bowl and add eggs and vanilla; mix until blended, about 2 minutes. Reduce speed to low and add half of dry ingredients followed by buttermilk, mixing well after each addition. Repeat with remaining dry ingredients and yogurt (this is a stiffer batter). Scrape into prepared pan. Scatter crumble over.
Bake, rotating once, until cake starts to pull away from sides of pan and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 60-70 minutes. Let cake cool in pan on a wire rack before turning out.
Do ahead: Cake can be made 3 days ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.

Daniel Boulud's Madeleines 
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
2 large eggs
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon light brown sugar
1 tablespoon honey
2 teaspoons finely grated lemon or orange zest
6 tablespoons warm melted unsalted butter
12-cake regular madeleine pan or three 20-cake mini madeleine pans and a pastry bag or resealable plastic bag.

Whisk 3/4 cup all-purpose flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, and 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt in a small bowl.
Whisk 2 large eggs, 1/3 cup granulated sugar, 1 tablespoon light brown sugar, 1 tablespoon honey, and 2 teaspoons finely grated lemon or orange zest in a medium bowl until smooth. Whisk in dry ingredients until just incorporated, then whisk in 6 tablespoons warm melted unsalted butter until smooth. Transfer batter to a pastry bag or resealable plastic bag and chill at least 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees . Lightly coat a 12-cake regular madeleine pan or three 20-cake mini madeleine pans with nonstick vegetable oil spray and dust with flour, tapping out excess. Snip end off pastry bag (or 1 corner of resealable plastic bag) and pipe batter into pan, filling two-thirds full (you may have a little batter left over).
Bake madeleines until edges are golden brown and centers are puffed and lightly spring back when gently pressed, about 8-10 minutes for regular cakes and 5 minutes for mini.
Tap pan against counter to release madeleines. Dust with powdered sugar and serve while still warm.

Raspberry-Ricotta Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
3 large eggs
1 1/2 cups ricotta
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1 cup frozen raspberries or blackberries, divided

Preheat oven to 350 degrees . Line a 9 inch-diameter cake pan with parchment paper and lightly coat with nonstick spray. Whisk flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl.
Whisk eggs, ricotta, and vanilla in a medium bowl until smooth; fold into dry ingredients just until blended. Then fold in butter, followed by 3/4 cup raspberries, taking care not to crush berries. Scrape batter into prepared pan and scatter remaining 1/4 cup raspberries over top.
Bake cake until golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 50–60 minutes. Let cool at least 20 minutes before unmolding.
Do ahead: Cake can be made 2 days ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.

Flourless Pistachio Cake with Strawberry Meringue 
Vegetable oil, for cake pan
1 1/2 cups shelled unsalted pistachios (8 ounces)
3/4 cup sugar, divided
6 large eggs, at room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt, plus more for egg whites
1/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
1 1/3 cups freeze-dried strawberries (1.2-ounce package)
5 egg whites, at room temperature
1/2 teaspoon white vinegar
1 cup almond flour (4 ounces)
1 cup superfine sugar
1 tablespoon potato starch
9-inch springform pan

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly brush a 9-inch springform pan with oil and line bottom with a round of parchment paper. Brush parchment with oil and set pan aside.
In a food processor, pulse pistachios with 1/4 cup sugar until finely ground (avoid overgrinding); set aside.
In two large bowls, separate the 6 eggs into yolks and whites, reserving the sixth egg white for another use. Add 1/4 cup sugar, vanilla, salt, and cardamom to bowl with egg yolks and beat using an electric mixer until thick and pale yellow, about 2 minutes. Set egg yolk mixture aside and thoroughly clean and dry the beaters.
Add a pinch of salt to the bowl with the egg whites and beat using an electric mixer until soft peaks form. Gradually beat in remaining 1/4 cup sugar, and continue beating until stiff peaks form.
Add half of the whipped egg whites and all of the ground pistachios to the egg yolk mixture and fold until combined. Add the remaining egg whites and fold until batter is just combined. Pour batter into prepared pan and smooth top with a rubber spatula. Bake until beginning to brown and just barely set, 20–25 minutes.
In a food processor, process the strawberries into a fine powder. Set aside 1 Tbsp. of the powder for decorating the cake, and pour the remaining powder into a medium bowl. Whisk in the almond flour and the potato starch.
In a large bowl using an electric mixer, beat 5 egg whites and vinegar until soft peaks form, then gradually beat in the sugar and and continue to whip until meringue is stiff and glossy and all the sugar has dissolved, 7–8 minutes. Gently fold almond mixture into meringue until just combined.
Remove cake from oven. Using an offset spatula or table knife, spread meringue mixture evenly over hot cake, starting from the outside and working your way into the center. Return cake to oven and bake until meringue is lightly browned and crisp, 25–30 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack to cool, and immediately run a knife around the edge of the cake to loosen it from the pan. Release and remove the side of the springform pan. Let cake cool at least 30 minutes before decorating.
Place the reserved strawberry powder in a fine-mesh sieve and dust over cake as desired.
Cake can be made up to one day before serving: cool to room temperature, loosely cover with plastic wrap, and store at room temperature.

Chocolate Chip Cookie Cake 
1/2 cup unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup packed brown sugar
1/4 cup white sugar
1 large eggs, whisked
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup all purpose flour
1/2 cup whole wheat flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup semi sweet chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 375 degrees  F.
Cream the butter and sugar in a standing mixer (or in a bowl using a hand mixer) for 4-5 minutes until light and fluffy.
Add the egg and vanilla extract and mix for 1 minute.
Combine the white flour, whole wheat flour, baking soda and salt in a bowl and slowly incorporate into the butter and egg mixture.
Mix until combined then pour in the chocolate chips and stir.
Press the dough into a greased heat shaped pie pan.
Bake for 20 minutes, or until golden brown.

Seeded Buckwheat Cookies 
1 cup pecans
1 cup buckwheat flour
3/4 teaspoons kosher salt
1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup all-purpose flour, plus more for surface
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup powdered sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 teaspoons granulated sugar
1 teaspoon white sesame seeds (not toasted)
1 teaspoon black sesame seeds
1/2 teaspoons poppy seeds

Preheat oven to 350 degrees . Toast pecans on a rimmed baking sheet, tossing once or twice, until lightly browned and beginning to smell nutty, 5-8 minutes (do not toast them all the way; they will get baked again). Let cool. Turn off oven.
Pulse pecans, buckwheat flour, salt, baking powder, and 1 cup all-purpose flour in a food processor until pecans are finely ground.
Using an electric mixer on medium. high speed, beat butter, powdered sugar, and vanilla until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Reduce speed to low and mix in dry ingredients just to blend. Divide dough in half; wrap each in plastic wrap, flattening into 1/2 inch-thick disks. Chill until very firm, at least 2 hours.
Working with 1 piece at a time, roll disks of dough between 2 lightly floured sheets of parchment paper to about 1/8 inch thick. Transfer to a baking sheet and remove top sheet of parchment. Chill 30 minutes.
While dough is chilling, mix granulated sugar, sesame seeds, and poppy seeds in a small bowl. Reheat oven to 350 degrees . Using a knife or pastry cutter, cut out 2 inch squares or diamonds from dough and space out on baking sheet, about 1/2 inch apart. Sprinkle with sesame mixture and bake cookies until golden brown around the edges, 10-12 minutes. Transfer cookies to wire racks and let cool before serving.
Do ahead: Dough can be made 5 days ahead; keep chilled. Cookies can be baked 2 days ahead; store airtight at room temperature.

Oat Shortcakes with Sautéed Apples, Cinnamon, and Whipped Cream 
3 tablespoons (45 grams) clarified butter or ghee
1 cup (100 grams) oat flour
2/3 cup (130 grams) granulated sugar
4 large eggs
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 large Honeycrisp or Gala apples, unpeeled, cut into 1/4-inch wedges
1 tablespoon lemon juice
1/4 cup packed light-brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon, plus more for dusting
1/8 teaspoon powdered ginger
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoon unsalted butter
1 1/2 cups heavy cream
Stand mixer with whisk attachment or handheld electric mixer, 9-inch square cake pan, sifter or medium-mesh strainer

Position a rack in the lower third of the oven and preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line the bottom of the cake pan with parchment paper, but leave the sides unlined and ungreased.
Put the clarified butter in a small pot or microwavable container ready to reheat when needed, and have a large bowl ready to pour it into as well. In a medium bowl, whisk the flour and 2 tablespoons of the sugar together thoroughly.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, combine eggs, salt, and remaining granulated sugar; beat on high speed until light-colored and tripled in volume, 4 to 5 minutes. You should see well-defined tracks as the whisk spins; when the whisk is lifted, the mixture should fall in a thick, fluffy rope that dissolves slowly on the surface of the batter.
Just before the egg mixture is ready, heat the clarified butter until very hot and pour it into the reserved large bowl.
Remove the bowl with the egg mixture from the mixer. Sift one-third of the flour mixture over the eggs; fold in with a large rubber spatula until the flour is almost blended into the batter. Repeat with half of the remaining flour, then repeat with the rest of the flour. Scrape about a quarter of the batter into the bowl with the hot clarified butter. Fold until the butter is completely blended into the batter. Scrape the buttery batter over the remaining batter and fold just until blended. Scrape the batter into the prepared cake pan.
Bake until the cake is golden brown on top, 30 to 35 minutes. It will have puffed up and then settled level, but it won't have pulled away from the sides of the pan, and a toothpick inserted in the center should come out clean and dry. Set the pan on a rack to cool completely.
When cool, cut around the edge of the cake to release it from the pan, then quickly invert over a cutting board. Cut in a tic-tac-toe grid, creating nine even squares of cake.
While the cake is baking, make the topping: In a medium bowl, toss sliced apples with lemon juice, brown sugar, cinnamon, ginger, salt, and 1/4 cup water. In a large skillet over medium heat, heat butter until melted. Add apple mixture and stir to combine. Cook over medium heat, turning occasionally, until apples have softened but still hold their shape and the sauce has thickened, 10 to 12 minutes.
Meanwhile, in the chilled bowl of an electric mixer with the whisk attachment, or using a handheld electric mixer, whip the cream until it holds a soft shape—not too stiff. (The cream can be covered and refrigerated for up to several hours. If liquid separates from the cream, whisk briefly before using.)
To serve, top each piece of cake with 4 to 5 cooked apple slices and a drizzle of sauce and garnish with a generous dollop of whipped cream and a sprinkle of cinnamon.

Macaroon Matzo Crunch 
1/2 cup unsweetened coconut flakes
1/2 cup sliced almonds
Nonstick vegetable cooking spray
4 unsalted matzo crackers
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter or unsalted pareve margarine
1 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
5 ounces chopped semisweet chocolate or chocolate chips (about 3/4 cup)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spread coconut flakes on 1 baking sheet and almonds on another. Toast until golden brown, about 3 minutes for the coconut and about 7 minutes for the almonds. Set aside.
Meanwhile, line a large rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper and spray with nonstick spray. Arrange matzo on parchment with no gaps in between (it's ok if they overlap slightly).
Whisk together butter, brown sugar, vanilla, and salt in a medium pot. Whisking occasionally, bring to a high simmer over medium heat, about 3 minutes. Once mixture is simmering, whisk constantly, until it turns a light brown, thickens, and starts to pull away from the sides of the pot, about 3 minutes. Immediately pour onto matzo, covering completely. Using a spatula, quickly spread caramel so matzo has an even coating.
Bake matzo until caramel is golden brown and bubbling, 14-16 minutes. Watch carefully to make sure caramel doesn't burn. If it starts to darken too quickly, remove from oven and lower heat to 325 degrees F; return to oven after a few minutes and continue to bake, watching closely.
Meanwhile, place chocolate in a heatproof bowl set over a small pot of simmering water and stir occasionally until melted. (Or, place chocolate in a microwave-safe bowl and heat in 20-second bursts in the microwave, stirring between each burst, until melted.)
Remove matzo from oven and sprinkle immediately with reserved coconut and almonds. Drizzle with chocolate. Let cool slightly, then place the baking sheet with the matzo crunch in the refrigerator until cooled and set, at least 30 minutes or up to overnight. Break matzo crunch into pieces and serve.

Maple Chocolate Cake 
1 1/2 cups (6 3/4 ounces/192 grams) unbleached all-purpose flour, spooned and leveled
3/4 cup (2 1/2 ounces/72 grams) unsweetened natural cocoa powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
1 cup (11 7/8 ounces/336 grams) pure maple syrup (dark or very dark preferred)*
1 cup (8 1/2 ounces/242 grams) 2% Greek yogurt
2 large eggs
1/4 cup (2 ounces/57 grams) grapeseed, or canola oil
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract

1. Position oven racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
2. Lightly grease a 9 × 13-inch rectangular baking pan or two 9-inch round pans (and line them with parchment paper), or line 18 wells of two 12-cup muffin tins with paper liners.
3. Into a large bowl, sift together the flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder, and salt.
4. In a large measuring cup or medium bowl, whisk together the syrup, yogurt, eggs, oil, and vanilla extract.
5. Pour the wet ingredients into the dry. Using a whisk, energetically blend the batter by hand until smooth and thick, about 1 minute. Spread the batter into the prepared pan or pans. (For fill the cups no more than two-thirds full—you should get 18 cupcakes.)
6. Bake until a toothpick comes out clean and the tops of the cakes spring back when lightly touched, 30 to 35 minutes for sheet and/or layer cakes, or 20 minutes for cupcakes. Cool completely in the pans on a wire rack before inverting and frosting.

Oat and Pistachio Sandies 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 cup old-fashioned oats
1 cup raw pistachios
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup powdered sugar

Pulse flour, oats, pistachios, salt, and baking soda in a food processor to combine (small pieces of oats and pistachio should still be visible).
Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat butter, granulated sugar, and powdered sugar in a medium bowl to create air pockets in butter, about 5 minutes; mixture will look light and fluffy. Reduce speed to low and add dry ingredients, mixing just until blended. Divide dough between 2 sheets of plastic wrap or parchment paper and shape into about 1 1/2 inch-diameter logs. Chill until firm, at least 1 hour. (The colder your dough, the easier it will be to cut into even slices.)
Place racks in lower and upper thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees . Using a serrated knife, slice logs into 1/4 inch-thick rounds and place on parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing about 1/2 inch apart. Bake, rotating baking sheets once, until cookies are golden brown around the edges, 10–12 minutes. Transfer to wire racks; let cool.
Do ahead: Keep dough chilled up to 5 days, or freeze up to 1 month.

Cinnamon-Date Buns 
16 Medjool dates, pitted (about 8 ounces)
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 tablespoon finely grated orange zest
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/3 cup whole milk
4 tablespoons honey, divided
1 envelope active dry yeast (about 2 1/4 teaspoons)
2 large egg yolks
2 large eggs
1/3 cup buttermilk
1 cup spelt flour
1 1/4 teaspoons kosher salt
2 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for surface
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces, room temperature, plus melted butter for bowl and brushing
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon

Bring dates, salt, and 1 1/2 cups water to a boil in a medium saucepan. Reduce heat and simmer, stirring and mashing occasionally, until dates are falling apart and water is evaporated (it should be a thick paste), 10-15 minutes. Let cool, then stir in butter, orange zest, and cinnamon.
Do ahead: Date filling can be made 1 week ahead. Cover and chill. Bring to room temperature before using.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees . Heat milk and 1 tablespoon honey in a small saucepan until lukewarm. Combine milk mixture and yeast in the bowl of a stand mixer. As soon as yeast is foamy, about 5 minutes, add egg yolks, 1 egg, buttermilk, spelt flour, salt, 2 cups all-purpose flour, and remaining 3 tablespoons honey; mix on medium speed until dough is smooth, shiny, and elastic, 5-8 minutes.
With motor running, add 1/2 cup room temperature butter, 1 piece at a time, waiting until each piece is incorporated before adding the next. Mix 1 minute, then increase speed to medium-high and mix until dough is soft and supple, 6-8 minutes. (No stand mixer? Whisk ingredients into yeast mixture in a large bowl, then knead dough on a clean surface. Mix in butter with a sturdy wooden spoon, then knead briefly to make sure butter is well incorporated.)
Place dough in a buttered medium bowl. Brush with melted butter; cover with plastic wrap. Let dough rise in a warm spot until doubled in size, 1–1 1/2 hours (2–2 1/2 hours if dough was made ahead and chilled).
Divide dough in half. Roll out 1 piece on a lightly floured surface to a 15x5 inch rectangle. Evenly spread with half of date filling and cut into 8 triangles. Starting with a pointy end, roll up dough (like a reverse crescent roll). Place, seam side down, on a parchment-lined baking sheet. Repeat with remaining dough, date filling, and another baking sheet.
Cover buns with plastic wrap and let rise in a warm spot until almost doubled in size, 30–40 minutes.
Mix sugar and cinnamon in a small bowl. Whisk remaining egg and 1 teaspoon water in another small bowl and brush over buns. Sprinkle with cinnamon sugar; bake until golden brown, 20–25 minutes. Let cool slightly before serving.
Do ahead: Dough (before rise) can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill.

Pear and Walnut Upside-Down Cake with Whipped Crème Fraîche 
1 cup unsalted butter (2 sticks), room temperature
3/4 cup lightly packed brown sugar
1 1/2 pounds ripe pears, cored and sliced into thin wedges (such as Bartlett or D'Anjou) (about 3 pears)
1 cup walnuts, toasted and chopped
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup granulated sugar
3 large eggs, at room temperature
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
3/4 cup milk, room temperature
4 tablespoons crème fraîche
1 cup heavy cream
1 teaspoon granulated sugar
One 9-inch round metal cake pan (at least 2 inches tall)

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Cut a half-stick of butter into slices and place it and the brown sugar in the cake pan. Set the pan over a medium-high burner. Stir as the butter and sugar melt together and continue until the mixture gets pale and bubbly, swirly when stirred, and toasty brown, about 2 minutes. Set aside to cool. (Note: If you'd rather not make the caramel in the cake pan, you can use a large skillet instead and simply pour the caramel into the cake pan when done.)
Arrange the pear wedges in the cake pan in an even patter. Sprinkle the walnuts evenly over the pears.
In a medium bowl, sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt and set aside.
Place the remaining 1 1/2 sticks of butter in the bowl of a stand mixer or large bowl. Beat the heck out of the butter using the paddle attachment of a stand mixer or a hand mixer until it gets lighter in both color and consistency. Add the sugar and beat until well blended and fluffy.
Separate the egg yolks from the whites and set the whites aside in a medium bowl. Stir the yolks into the butter mixture until completely blended (no need to beat, and then stir the vanilla. Add half the dry ingredients and stir until mixed in. Stir in the milk until completely smooth, then the rest of the dry ingredients just until fully incorporated; set aside.
Using a stand mixer or hand mixer, beat the egg whites until very fluffy. The whites should look shiny with soft peaks—stop whisking before they get dry looking. Gently but thoroughly fold the whipped whites into the batter—all the air that you just whipped in will go out of the whites if you over-mix at this point. Pour the batter over the fruit and gently smooth the top.
Put the cake in the oven and start checking for doneness in 35 minutes: peek in, give the pan a tiny nudge, and look for jigglyness in the center. If it wobbles and looks soft and crinkled on top, gently close the door and set the timer for 5 more minutes. If it's looking set, slide the rack out and touch the top of the cake with your fingers, testing for bounce-back. If your touch leaves a dent that stays, return the cake to the oven. If it does spring back, the final test is sticking a toothpick into center of the cake. When it comes out moist, but crumb-free, it's done!
Let the cake cool in the pan for 30 minutes. Run a knife around the edge, invert a plate on top of the pan, and carefully but quickly flip it over. Tap the bottom of the pan if the cake doesn't fall onto the plate on its own. Lift the pan away and replace any pear slices that may have stuck there.
When ready to serve, combine all the ingredients for the whipped crème fraîche in a large bowl; whip until thick and fluffy, but still soft.
Slice the cake and serve each wedge with a dollop of whipped crème fraîche.

Corn Flour Shortcakes with Blackberries and Whipped Cream 
1/2 cup (110 grams) granulated sugar, divided
3 large egg yolks, at room temperature
1/4 cup flavorless vegetable oil (such as corn or safflower)
1/2 cup (70 grams) corn flour
1/4 cup (40 grams) white rice flour (Bob's Red Mill makes a good one)
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 large egg whites, at room temperature
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
2 cups (12 ounces) fresh blackberries
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 1/4 cups heavy cream
1/4 cup sour cream
Pinch of salt
1/2 teaspoon granulated sugar
Stand mixer with whisk attachment or handheld electric mixer, 9-inch square cake pan

Position a rack in the lower third of the oven and preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Line the bottom of the pan with parchment paper but leave the sides unlined and ungreased.
Set aside 2 tablespoons of the sugar for later (to stiffen the egg whites).
Add the remaining sugar to a large mixing bowl with egg yolks, oil, corn flour, rice flour, baking powder, salt, and 1/4 cup water. Whisk to blend thoroughly. Set aside for 15 minutes to hydrate the corn flour while the oven is heating.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, combine the egg whites and cream of tartar and beat on medium-high speed until the mixture is creamy white and holds a soft shape. Slowly sprinkle in the reserved 2 tablespoons sugar, beating at high speed until the egg whites are stiff but not dry. Scrape half of the egg whites onto the corn batter and fold until partially blended. Add the remaining egg whites and fold just until the batter looks blended. Scrape the batter into the pan and spread it evenly.
Bake until the top of the cake is golden brown and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, 30 to 35 minutes.
Set the pan on a cooling rack. Immediately, while the cake is still hot, slide a thin knife or spatula around the sides, pressing against the pan to avoid tearing the cake. Leave the cake in the pan to cool—it will settle at a bit and pull away from the edges of the pan.
When cool, carefully invert the cake onto a cutting board. Cut the cake into 8 even rectangles, about 2x4-inches each.
In a medium bowl, mix together 1 1/2 cup of the blackberries with the and lemon juice. Let stand 30 minutes, then stir and mash with the back of a spoon to break up the berries. When ready to serve, stir in remaining 1/2 cup fresh blackberries.
Meanwhile, pour heavy cream into the chilled bowl of stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment and beat on high until soft peaks form. Turn speed to low and gently whisk in sour cream, salt, and sugar. Refrigerate until ready to serve.
To serve, slice each rectangle in half horizontally. Top the bottom half with a spoonful (about 3 tablespoons) of blackberries and their sauce, and then garnish with a generous dollop of whipped cream and place the top half of the cake on top. Repeat to form remaining servings.

Buckwheat Linzer Cookies 
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons (55 grams) white rice flour
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (70 grams) buckwheat flour
2/3 cup (65 grams) oat flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup (100 grams) sugar
1/4 cup (60 grams) cream cheese, cut into chunks
12 tablespoons (1 1/2 sticks/170 grams) unsalted butter, cut into chunks and softened
1 tablespoon water
Buckwheat sablés dough, shaped into logs and chilled as directed
1/2 cup blackberry (or other) preserves
Powdered sugar for dusting
Baking sheets, lined with parchment paper
7/8-inch round cookie cutter (or bottle cap to improvise)
Sifter or medium-fine mesh strainer

To make the dough by hand, put the rice flour, buckwheat flour, oat flour, salt, baking soda, and sugar in a large bowl and whisk until thoroughly blended. Add the cream cheese, butter, and water. Use a fork or the back of a large spoon to mash and mix the ingredients together until all are blended into a smooth, soft dough.
To make the dough in a food processor, combine the rice flour, buckwheat flour, oat flour, salt, baking soda, and sugar. Pulse to mix thoroughly. Add the cream cheese, butter, and water. Process just until the mixture forms a ball of smooth, soft dough. Scrape the bowl and blend in any stray flour at the bottom with your fingers.
Scrape the dough onto a sheet of wax paper and form it into two 8-inch logs about 1 1/2 inches in diameter. Wrap tightly in the wax paper and refrigerate for at least 2 hours, but preferably longer or overnight.
Position racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat the oven to 325 degrees F.
Use a sharp knife to cut the cold logs of dough into 1/4-inch slices. Place the cookies at least 1 1/2 inches apart on the prepared baking sheets. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, rotating the sheets from front to back and top to bottom about halfway through the baking time, until the cookies are slightly darker brown at the edges and well browned on the bottom.
Set the pans or just the liners on racks to cool. Cool completely before stacking or storing. Cookies may be stored in an airtight container for at least 2 weeks.
Position racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat the oven to 325 degrees F.
Slice the chilled logs less than 1/4 inch thick and place the slices 1 1/2 inches apart on the prepared baking sheets, dividing the total number equally between them. Bake for about 12 minutes. Remove the upper sheet of cookies and place it on the counter or stovetop. Press the cookie cutter gently into each cookie. If the centers lift out, fine; otherwise you can remove them later. Switch and rotate sheets, placing the first on the lower rack in place of the second. Bake for 10 to 15 minutes, or until the cookies are slightly darker at the edges and well browned on the bottom.
Set the pans or just the liners on racks to cool. Cool completely. Remove the cutouts. Unfilled cookies may be stored in an airtight container for at least 2 weeks.
Shortly before serving, spread 1/2 teaspoon of preserves on the cookies without holes. Sieve a little powdered sugar over the cookies with holes and place one on top of each jam-topped cookie.

Ginger-Curry Sugar Cookies 
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) cold unsalted butter, diced (140 grams)
1 large egg
Seeds from 1 vanilla bean
1 1/2 cups plus 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour (208 grams)
3/4 cup confectioners' sugar (90 grams)
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger (3 grams)
1 teaspoon mild curry powder (2 grams)
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt (2 grams)
Demerara sugar, for rolling
2 large egg yolks, beaten
Maldon sea salt, for sprinkling
24 one-inch slices crystallized ginger, halved crosswise

In the bowl of a standing mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the butter on medium-low speed for about 5 minutes, until a thick, smooth paste forms. Add the egg and vanilla seeds and mix until combined.
Meanwhile, in a separate bowl, sift together the flour, confectioners' sugar, ginger, and curry powder; sprinkle the kosher salt over the top. With the mixer on low speed, slowly add the dry ingredients to the butter and mix until just combined.
Divide the dough between 2 sheets of parchment and form into long thin logs, about 1 1/2 inches in diameter. Fold the paper over the dough roll and use a pastry scraper to tighten the dough log. Use your hands to smooth and form the dough into as perfect a cylinder as you can. Refrigerate until firm.
When ready to bake, preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with silicone baking mats or parchment paper.
Using 2 hands, roll the dough logs firmly on a work surface to round out any edges. Sprinkle the Demerara sugar onto another baking sheet. Unwrap the dough and, using a pastry brush, brush the surface with beaten egg yolk. Roll the dough in the sugar and slice it with a sharp knife into 1/4-inch-thick slices. Brush the surface of each cookie with beaten yolk, sprinkle a few flakes of Maldon salt on top, and press a piece of crystallized ginger into the center of each cookie.
Space the cookies about 1 inch apart on the lined baking sheets and bake for 15 to 16 minutes, rotating the pans halfway through, until the edges are just beginning to turn golden. Cool in the pan for 10 minutes before transferring to a rack to cool completely. Store in an airtight container for up to 5 days.

Double Chocolate Chunk Walnut Cookies 
Cooking spray or oil mister (optional)
1/2 cup raw sugar
1/3 cup unpacked dark brown sugar
1/4 cup mashed avocado
1 tablespoon unsweetened applesauce
1 large egg white
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup (65 grams) white whole wheat unbleached flour (I recommend King Arthur)
1/3 cup (50 grams) all-purpose flour
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (I use Trader Joe's)
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
1/3 cup semisweet chocolate chunks
1/2 cup finely chopped walnuts

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 regular baking sheets with silicone baking mats (such as Silpats) or lightly spray nonstick baking sheets with oil.
In a large bowl, using an electric hand mixer, whisk together the sugars, avocado, applesauce, egg white, and vanilla until the sugar dissolves, about 2 to 3 minutes.
In a separate large bowl, whisk together the flours, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt. Fold in the dry ingredients with a spatula in two additions. Using a spatula, fold in the chocolate chunks and walnuts. The dough will be very sticky. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate 15 minutes.
Drop the dough by tablespoonfuls about 1 inch apart onto the prepared baking sheets and smooth the tops.
Bake until almost set, 10 to 12 minutes. Let cool for 5 minutes on the pan, then transfer to wire racks to cool completely.

Upside-Down Fruit Cake 
2 sticks plus 2 tablespoons softened butter, plus more for greasing
1 1/4 packed cups light-brown sugar
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup almond meal
1/2 cup sour cream
4 eggs, room temperature
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
8-10 firmish ripe plums
4 tablespoons light-brown sugar

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Use a little butter to grease a 9-inch round springform pan, then line the base with parchment paper. Wrap the base of the pan with aluminum foil.
Halve and pit the plums, then cut each half into 3 wedges. Toss them with 4 tablespoons light-brown sugar.
Arrange the fruit in the bottom of the pan in neat rings. They must be in a single layer. Make sure you add all the sugar.
Put the butter in a mixing bowl with the dry ingredients, sour cream, eggs, and almond extract.
Use an electric mixer to beat everything to a smooth, fairly thick cake batter. Spoon the batter on top of the fruit, then smooth the top. Bake until the cake is golden and has risen, 55 minutes to 1 hour. A skewer should come out clean when inserted in the center. Run an icing spatula or table knife around the edge of the pan to loosen the cake, then let cool on a cooling rack.
Serve the cake warm. If you need to reheat it, cover it loosely with foil and warm in a low oven for 15 minutes.

Matcha-White Chocolate Sugar Cookies 
3/4 cup granulated sugar, divided
1/2 teaspoons plus 2 tablespoons matcha
2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 cup (2 sticks) plus 2 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces, room temperature
1/2 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons honey
1 large egg
1 large egg yolk
2 teaspoons finely grated lemon zest
3 ounces white chocolate, chopped

Whisk 1/2 cup granulated sugar and 1/2 teaspoons matcha in a small bowl; set aside.
Whisk flour, baking soda, salt, and remaining 2 tablespoons matcha in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer on mediumhigh speed, beat butter, brown sugar, honey, and remaining 1/4 cup granulated sugar in a medium bowl until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add egg, egg yolk, and lemon zest and mix until very pale, about 4 minutes.
Reduce mixer speed to low and, with motor running, add flour mixture; mix until no dry spots remain. Using a wooden spoon or rubber spatula, mix in white chocolate.
Wrap dough in plastic and chill at least 2 hours and up to 5 days. If chilling more than a few hours, let dough sit at room temperature 1 hour to soften before scooping and baking.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees . Scoop the dough by the scant tablespoonful onto 2 parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing about 1 inch apart. (Or, for neat and tidy cookies with perfect edges, like the ones in our photo, portion same amount of dough into the cups of a mini muffin pan coated with nonstick vegetable oil spray.)
Bake cookies, rotating baking sheet halfway through, until bottoms and edges are barely golden and cooked (top will no longer look wet), 8–10 minutes.
Immediately—but gently—toss cookies in reserved matcha sugar and place on wire racks; let cool.

All-in-One Sugar Cookie Dough 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup unsalted butter (2 sticks), at room temperature
1 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
electric mixer, cookie cutters (if making roll-and-cut cookies)

In a medium bowl, whisk flour and salt together. In a separate bowl, use an electric mixer to beat the butter and sugar until well combined and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add egg and vanilla and beat until just combined. Reduce speed to low and gradually blend in the flour mixture; mix until just combined.
Form dough into two equal-sized balls and flatten into discs. Wrap both in plastic and chill at least 1 hour.
Position oven racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Prepare a well-floured surface and a well-floured rolling pin to help keep the dough from sticking. Working with one disc at a time, roll dough to 1/4 inch thick. Cut out as many cookies as possible with cookie cutters (if dough becomes too soft, chill until firm). Arrange cookies 1 1/2 inches apart on two ungreased baking sheets and chill 15 minutes. Gather scraps, form into a small disc, and chill until firm.
Bake cookies until golden brown at edges (rotating baking sheets and switching position on racks halfway through), 16 to 18 minutes. Transfer to cooling racks to cool completely.
Roll out the second disc of dough and scraps (reroll scraps only once) and bake on cooled baking sheets. Transfer to racks to cool completely. Decorate, if desired.
Halve dough and form into two logs, 1 1/2 inches in diameter. Wrap logs in plastic and roll to form a more uniform round shape. Chill at least 2 hours.
Position oven racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Slice cookies into 1/4-inch-thick rounds and arrange 1 1/2 inches apart on ungreased baking sheets. Bake cookies until golden brown at edges (rotating baking sheets and switching position on racks halfway through), 16 to 18 minutes. Transfer to cooling racks to cool completely. Decorate, if desired.
Pistachio-Cranberry: After blending the flour mixture into the butter and sugar mixture, add 3/4 cup dried unsweetened cranberries and 3/4 cup chopped pistachios. Mix gently to incorporate.
Lemon-Thyme: After blending the flour mixture into the butter and sugar mixture, add 1 tablespoon lemon zest and 1 tablespoon picked fresh thyme leaves. Mix gently to incorporate. After baked cookies have cooled, make a simple glaze, if desired: whisk together 1/4 cup confectioners' sugar and 1 to 2 tablespoons whole milk. Spoon a small amount onto the center of each cookie and top with additional lemon zest and thyme leaves.
Chai-Spiced with Crystallized Ginger: When combining the dry ingredients, whisk in 1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom, 1/4 teaspoon ground clove, and 1/4 teaspoon ground ginger. After blending the flour mixture into the butter and sugar mixture, add 3/4 cup chopped crystallized ginger. Mix gently to incorporate. Sprinkle with sanding sugar or sugar in the raw, if desired, before baking.
Carrot Cake: When combining the dry ingredients, whisk in 1 teaspoon ground cinnamon. After blending the flour mixture into the butter and sugar mixture, add 3/4 cup finely grated carrot and 3/4 cup chopped walnuts. Mix gently to incorporate.
To make Carrot-Cake Sandwich Cookies: Follow the slice-and-bake method above to bake cookies. To make sandwich filling, use an electric mixer to beat 3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter on medium-high until smooth and fluffy. Add 8 ounces room temperature bar cream cheese and beat until well blended. Add 2 1/2 cups sifted confectioner's sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla extract and mix on medium-low until well combined. Spread 2 to 3 teaspoons of filling on the flat side of a baked cookie, and then top with another cookie (domed side up) to form a sandwich. Repeat with the rest of the cookies.
Mocha: Whisk 1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder and 2 tablespoons instant espresso powder into the dry ingredients. Follow the rest of the procedure as written above in the base recipe.
To make Mocha-Caramel Sandwich Cookies: Follow the slice-and-bake method above to bake cookies. To assemble the sandwiches, spread homemade or store-bought dulce de leche caramel on the flat side of a baked cookie, then top with another cookie (domed side up) to form a sandwich. Repeat with the rest of the cookies.

Crunchy Meringue Cookies 
5 large egg whites
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
3/4 cup granulated sugar (150 grams)
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar (180 grams)

Preheat the oven to 200 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper.
Put the egg whites, cream of tartar, and 1/4 cup of the granulated sugar in the bowl of a standing mixer with the whisk and turn the mixer on to medium. Whip until the whites are foamy and then slightly increase the speed. Continue whipping until the whites have tripled in volume and are fluffy but still soft. The whites should just be starting to hold the trail of the whisk along the sides of the bowl.
With the motor running, very slowly sprinkle another 1/4 cup of the granulated sugar onto the whites between the bowl and the edge of the whisk. Slightly increase the mixer speed and whip until the whites start to turn glossy but are still soft. Slowly sprinkle in the remaining 1/4 cup granulated sugar and increase the heat to medium-high. Whip for 2 to 3 minutes longer, until very stiff and glossy but not dry. Transfer the whites to a very large mixing bowl.
Put the confectioners' sugar into a fine-mesh strainer. Sift about one quarter of it onto the whipped whites. Using the largest rubber spatula you have, gently fold the sugar into the meringue, drawing the spatula through the meringue and pulling it up and over itself from the sides of the bowl in. Move slowly and precisely so you don't knock the air out of the whites. Continue sifting and folding in the sugar in 2 or 3 more additions. Once the whites are smooth with no lumps of confectioners' sugar, they are ready.
The meringue can be transferred to a pastry bag with a star tip or into a resealable plastic food bag with the corner snipped and used to pipe stars, circles, or any shape you like onto the lined baking sheets. You can make the cookies as small as dimes to sprinkle over ice cream or large enough to sandwich ice cream between them. Or use 2 spoons to mound the meringue into pillows.
Bake for 1 hour, rotating and switching the pans halfway through. Baking time may vary depending on the size of the meringues; the cookies should feel dry, light, and hollow and have no give when you press on them. If they still feel soft, bake for 15 minutes longer and test again. Turn the oven off and let the meringues cool completely in the oven. Store the cooled meringues in an airtight container for up to 2 weeks.

Buckwheat Sablés 
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons (55 grams) white rice flour
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (70 grams) buckwheat flour
2/3 cup (65 grams) oat flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup (100 grams) sugar
1/4 cup (60 grams) cream cheese, cut into chunks
12 tablespoons (1 1/2 sticks/170 grams) unsalted butter, cut into chunks and softened
1 tablespoon water
Food processor fitted with the steel blade
Baking sheets, lined with parchment paper

To make the dough by hand, put the rice flour, buckwheat flour, oat flour, salt, baking soda, and sugar in a large bowl and whisk until thoroughly blended. Add the cream cheese, butter, and water. Use a fork or the back of a large spoon to mash and mix the ingredients together until all are blended into a smooth, soft dough.
To make the dough in a food processor, combine the rice flour, buckwheat flour, oat flour, salt, baking soda, and sugar. Pulse to mix thoroughly. Add the cream cheese, butter, and water. Process just until the mixture forms a ball of smooth, soft dough. Scrape the bowl and blend in any stray flour at the bottom with your fingers.
Scrape the dough onto a sheet of wax paper and form it into two 8-inch logs about 1 1/2 inches in diameter. Wrap tightly in the wax paper and refrigerate for at least 2 hours, but preferably longer or overnight.
Position racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat the oven to 325 degrees F.
Use a sharp knife to cut the cold logs of dough into 1/4-inch slices. Place the cookies at least 1 1/2 inches apart on the prepared baking sheets. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes, rotating the sheets from front to back and top to bottom about halfway through the baking time, until the cookies are slightly darker brown at the edges and well browned on the bottom.
Set the pans or just the liners on racks to cool. Cool completely before stacking or storing. Cookies may be stored in an airtight container for at least 2 weeks.

Melty Chocolate-Truffle Cookies 
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
1/2 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp salt
1 tsp espresso powder (optional)
2 tbsp unsalted butter, cut into pieces, room temperature
1/3 cup (about 3 oz) chopped dark chocolate
1 large egg
1 tbsp vanilla extract
1 cup powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 375 degrees  with racks in center and upper third. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment.
Whisk together flour, sugar, cocoa powder, baking powder, salt, and espresso powder (if using). Rub butter into dry ingredients until mixture resembles breadcrumbs. Stir in chocolate.
Whisk together egg and vanilla. Add egg mixture to chocolate mixture; stir with a fork until mixture is slightly moistened. Form dough into a ball; wrap in plastic; refrigerate 30 minutes.
Shape dough into tablespoon-size balls. Roll each in powdered sugar to coat; place on sheets 2 inch apart. Bake until just set but still slightly undercooked, about 10 minutes. Let cool on sheets 5 minutes; transfer to wire racks to cool completely. Serve warm.

Apple, Pear, and Cranberry Coffee Cake 
1 cup oats
3/4 cup white rice flour
1 cup brown sugar, well packed
1 cup chopped nuts (optional)
1/2 cup melted unsalted butter
Pinch of ground cinnamon
1 pound (grapefruit-size portion) Apple Cider Brioche
Unsalted butter, for greasing the pan
2 small apples (1 tart and 1 sweet), thinly sliced
1 pear, thinly sliced
3 tablespoons brown sugar
Grated zest of half an orange
1 1/2 cups streusel topping (above)

Combine all streusel ingredients in a bowl and mix until the butter is incorporated. Do not overmix–you want a crumbly texture. Set aside.
Grease an 8- inch round spring-form pan with butter. Set aside.
Toss the apples, pear, brown sugar, and zest together in a small bowl and set aside.
Dust the surface of the refrigerated dough with flour and cut off a 1-pound (grapefruit-size) piece. Divide the dough in two equal pieces, dust with more flour and quickly shape them into rough balls.
Press the first piece of dough into the spring-form pan.
Top with half of the apple and pear mixture, then sprinkle half of the streusel topping over it. Repeat with the next layer of dough, apple and pear mixture, and streusel.
Allow the cake to rest for 60 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Bake the cake in the middle of the oven for 55 minutes.
Allow to sit for about 15 minutes, then remove it from the spring-form pan.
Allow to cool before serving.

Crunchy Chocolate Chunk Cookies 
1 1/2 cups unbleached cake flour
2 cups unbleached bread flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 sticks (8 ounces) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup granulated sugar
1 cup light-brown sugar
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Generous pinch kosher salt
3 large eggs
1 cup bittersweet chocolate chunks (ideally about 72% cacao)
1/2 cup Valrhona chocolate pearls (available at valrhona-chocolate.com) or chopped malted milk balls
Coarse sea salt, for sprinkling
Cold local whole milk, for serving

In a medium bowl, sift together the flours and the baking soda; set aside.
In the bowl of a stand mixer with a paddle attachment, cream the butter on medium speed. Add sugars, vanilla, and kosher salt and continue to beat until well combined, light, and fluffy.
With the mixer running, add the eggs one at a time, scraping down the sides of the bowl occasionally, and beat until fully incorporated. Add the flour mixture all at once and mix on medium until it just comes together.
Add the chocolate chunks and chocolate pearls and mix on low just to incorporate. Cover mixing bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate dough for at least an hour (or up to overnight).
About 30 minutes before baking, preheat oven to 350 degrees F and line two baking sheets with parchment paper.
Use a medium-size ice cream scoop, scoop dough onto baking sheets, leaving 2 inches of space between cookies. Sprinkle each cookie with a pinch of coarse sea salt and bake for 10 to 12 minutes if you like a soft, gooey center or up to 15 minutes if you prefer crispier edges. Serve warm with a glass of cold milk.

Spiced Sweet Potato Bundt Cake 
1 cup unsalted butter, melted, slightly cooled, plus more
3 1/3 cups all-purpose flour plus more
1 1/2 lb orange-fleshed sweet potatoes, peeled, cut into large pieces
2 cups sugar
1 tbsp baking soda
1 tbsp ground cinnamon
1 tbsp ground allspice
1 tbsp grated nutmeg
1 tbsp ground ginger
1/2 tsp kosher salt
4 eggs
2 cups chocolate chips
Chocolate-Chicory Sauce
12-cup Bundt pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees . Butter and flour pan.
In a medium pot, cover sweet potatoes with water. Bring to a boil; cook until potatoes are soft, about 15 minutes. Drain.
Whisk together flour, sugar, baking soda, cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, ginger, and salt in a bowl.
Using a stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment, beat cooked sweet potatoes and eggs on medium speed until smooth. Add melted butter and beat until combined. Reduce speed to low, add flour mixture, and mix just until combined. Remove bowl from mixer and, with a wooden spoon, stir in chocolate chips. Spoon batter into prepared pan.
Bake until a toothpick or skewer inserted into center of cake comes out clean, 40-50 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack to let cool completely in pan, about 1 hour. Loosen cake from pan using tip of a dinner knife, then invert a rack over pan and turn cake out onto rack to cool.
Drizzle with chocolate sauce before serving.

Torta di Ricotta e Polenta 
1/2 cup organic butter
1/2 cup clear honey (preferably unheated)
Finely grated zest of 3 organic lemons
1/2 teaspoon ground vanilla powder or vanilla extract
4 eggs, separated
1 1/4 cups almond flour (or 1 1/4 cups almonds, blitzed into flour)
1 cup fine, organic GMO-free polenta
Generous 1 cup ricotta
1/2 cup flaked (slivered) almonds

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Line the base of an 8-inch springform tin with baking parchment and set aside.
Place the butter, half of the honey, the lemon zest and vanilla in a bowl and use an electric mixer to beat everything until creamy. Add the egg yolks and continue to beat for a further minute. Add the almond flour, polenta and ricotta and fold everything together.
Whisk the egg whites in a separate bowl until softly peaking in a separate bowl. Add the remaining honey and continue whisking until peaking again and well blended.
Slowly fold the egg whites into the cake mixture. Turn the mixture into the prepared cake tin and sprinkle the flaked almonds evenly over the top. Bake for 40 to 50 minutes or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. The center of the cake might look slightly wobbly at first, but it will firm up when the cake cools down. Leave to cool completely before removing it from the tin.

Classic Sugar Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
2 sticks (8 ounces) unsalted butter, at room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
cookie cutters (if making roll-and-cut cookies)

In a medium bowl, whisk flour and salt together. Place butter and sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer and beat on high speed until well combined, about 3 minutes. Add egg and vanilla and beat until just combined. Reduce speed to low and gradually add the flour mixture; mix until just combined.
Form dough into two equal-sized balls and flatten into discs. Wrap both in plastic and chill at least 1 hour.
Position oven racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Prepare a well-floured surface and a well-floured rolling pin. Working with one disc at a time, roll dough to 1/4 inch thick. Cut out as many cookies as possible with cutters (if dough becomes too soft, return to refrigerator and chill until firm). Arrange cookies 1 inch apart on 2 ungreased baking sheets and chill 15 minutes. Gather scraps, form into a small disc, and chill until firm.
Bake cookies until golden brown at edges (rotating baking sheets and switching position on racks halfway through), 15 to 20 minutes. Transfer to cooling racks to cool completely.
Roll out the second disc of dough and scraps (reroll scraps only once) and bake on cooled baking sheets. Transfer to racks to cool completely. Decorate, if desired.
Halve dough and form into two logs, 1 1/2 inches in diameter. Wrap logs in plastic and roll to form a more uniform round shape. Chill at least 2 hours.
Position oven racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Slice cookies into 1/4-inch-thick rounds and arrange 1 inch apart on ungreased baking sheets. Bake cookies until golden brown at edges (rotating baking sheets and switching position on racks halfway through), 15 to 20 minutes. Transfer to cooling racks to cool completely. Decorate, if desired.

Chocolate Fudge Layer Cake 
1 1/4 sticks (1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons) butter, plus extra for greasing
1 1/4 cups whole milk
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups light-brown sugar
14-ounce can sweetened condensed milk
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons heavy cream
7 ounces bittersweet chocolate (50-70% cacao, depending on your taste), chopped
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) butter, cubed
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Two 8-inch round cake pans

Make the cake: Preheat the oven to 350F. In a small saucepan, gently melt the 1 1/4 sticks of butter. Remove from heat and whisk in the milk, oil, and vanilla. Meanwhile, grease two 8-inch round cake pans, then line the bottoms with circles of parchment paper.
Mix together the flour, cocoa, baking soda, baking powder, and salt, then sift into a large bowl.
Add the brown sugar and break up any lumps. Make a well in the center and add the butter mixture. Using a whisk, slowly mix the ingredients together, then give it a good beating until smooth and evenly blended. Using a spatula, divide the batter equally between the pans and spread it flat.
Bake until the cakes are risen, firm, and have shrunk back slightly from the edges of the pans. Let cool in the pans 10 minutes, then turn out onto a cooling rack and cool completely.
Make the frosting: In a medium saucepan, stir the condensed milk and cream over low heat until it starts to bubble at the edges. Remove from heat and stir in the chocolate, butter, and vanilla. Let the chocolate melt, stirring and beating occasionally as it cools, until thick, fudgy, and completely cooled.
Assemble the cake: On a cake plate lined with strips of parchment paper, sandwich the cakes together with 1/2 cup frosting. Spoon the remaining frosting over the top of the cake. Spread it out thickly, then, working on a quarter of the cake at a time, work the frosting over the edge of the cake and down to meet the plate. Try to keep going in one fluid movement. Repeat all over. Smooth and swirl the frosting as you like, or leave it rough.
Let the cake sit somewhere cool for an hour (or up to a day) before slicing.

Mummy Sandwich Cookies with White and Dark Chocolate 
1 recipe Classic Sugar Cookies , baked using the slice-and-bake method
8 ounces dark or semi-sweet chocolate, chopped
8 ounces white chocolate, chopped
2 1/2 cups confectioner's sugar, sifted
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, at room temperature
8 ounces bar cream cheese, at room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Green food coloring (preferably gel paste)
pastry bag with small tip or resealable plastic bag
wooden skewers or toothpicks

Fill a medium pot with 2 inches of water, place over medium heat, and bring to a simmer. Place dark chocolate in a heatproof metal or glass bowl and set over the pot (the simmering water should not touch the bottom of the bowl). Melt chocolate, stirring frequently, until almost completely melted. Remove bowl from heat, and stir until smooth.
Using a small offset spatula or spoon, apply a thin layer of dark chocolate onto the rounded surface of the  inchtops inch of half the cookies, reserving the remaining half of the cookies for the sandwich  inchbottoms. inch Reserve remaining dark chocolate for the mummy eyes. Set cookies aside to allow chocolate to set, about 10 minutes.
Repeat melting process with white chocolate. Fill a pastry bag fitted with a small tip with melted white chocolate. Drizzle thin horizontal stripes of white chocolate onto each chocolate-covered cookie, leaving a 1/4-inch gap in the center for the eyes. Add the whites of two eyes in the center of each cookie and allow to set, about 5 minutes. Using a toothpick, add two small dots of reserved melted dark chocolate to the eyes to make pupils. Repeat with remaining cookies.
Using an electric mixer, beat butter on medium-high until smooth and fluffy. Add the cream cheese and beat until well blended. Add the confectioner's sugar, vanilla extract, and a few drops food coloring. Mix on medium-low until well combined, adding additional food coloring, if desired.
Spread 1 1/2 teaspoons of filling on the flat side of each reserved plain sugar cookie  inchbottom, inch then top with a decorated cookie.

Nana's Butter Cookies with Milk-Jam Filling 
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup powdered sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 tablespoons whole milk
2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 large egg
1 quart goat's milk or cow's milk
1 1/4 cups granulated sugar
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 vanilla bean, halved lengthwise
Powdered sugar (optional; for serving)

Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat butter, powdered sugar, and vanilla in a medium bowl until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Reduce speed to low; add milk, salt, and 2 1/2 cups flour and mix just to combine. Form dough into a 1/2 inch-thick disk and wrap in plastic. Chill until firm, at least 1 hour.
Let dough sit at room temperature to soften slightly, about 5 minutes. Roll dough out between 2 sheets of parchment paper until about 1/8 inch thick. Cut out rounds with a floured 2 1/2 inch-diameter cookie cutter. Cut out a circle in half of the rounds with a 3/4 inch-diameter cookie cutter and transfer to 2 parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart.
Whisk egg and 1 teaspoon water in a small bowl and brush tops of cookies with egg wash. Bake cookies, rotating halfway through, until golden brown, 12&endash;15 minutes. Transfer baking sheets to wire racks and let cookies cool.
Combine milk, sugar, and baking soda in a large saucepan; scrape in vanilla seeds and add pod. Bring just to a boil over medium heat, stirring to dissolve sugar. Reduce heat and simmer, whisking occasionally, until mixture is reduced to about 1 1/4 cups (it will darken and separate, with little bits visible), 80&endash;90 minutes. Strain milk jam through a fine mesh sieve into a medium bowl and let cool.
Spoon a small amount of milk jam onto flat side of a cookie without a hole and sandwich with a cookie with a hole. Repeat with remaining cookies and filling. Dust with powdered sugar, if desired.

The Ischler 
2 cups sliced almonds, preferably unblanched
1 cup plus 2 tbsp powdered sugar
16 tbsp unsalted butter, softened (2 sticks)
1/2 large egg, lightly beaten
1 tsp vanilla extract
1 3/4 cups plus 1 tbsp bleached all-purpose flour
1/4 tsp fine sea salt
2 2/3 cups dried apricots (1 lb)
1 cup plus 2 tbsp granulated sugar
2 tsp lemon zest, finely grated
1 tsp apricot or peach brandy
8 oz bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1/4 cup heavy cream, hot
Nut grater; 21/2 inch round cookie cutters

Grate almonds using nut grater.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with flat beater, beat almonds, powdered sugar, and butter until fluffy. Scrape down sides of bowl. Add egg and vanilla; beat until blended.
Whisk together flour and salt. On low speed, gradually add flour mixture to butter mixture. Mix until incorporated and dough begins to come away from sides of bowl.
Scrape mixture into a plastic bag and press it together. Remove dough from bag and transfer to a large sheet of plastic wrap. Use the edges of the wrap to knead dough until smooth.
Divide dough into quarters. Wrap with plastic and flatten into disks. Place in freezer bag. Refrigerate for at least 2 hours and up to 2 days.
In a medium saucepan with a tight-fitting lid, soak dried apricots in 2 cups water for 2 hours. Bring to a boil, cover, and simmer for 20-30 minutes on the lowest heat until apricots are very soft. If water evaporates, add a little extra.
In a food processor, pulse apricots and liquid with sugar, lemon zest, and brandy.
Return mixture to saucepan and simmer, stirring, 10-15 minutes, until deep orange and thick.
Transfer to a bowl; let cool. (You will need only about 2/3 cup, but the leftover will keep almost indefinitely when refrigerated.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees .
Set 1 dough disk on a lightly floured surface. Lightly flour dough and re-cover it with plastic wrap. Let dough soften until malleable, about 10 minutes. Roll 1/8 inch thick, adding more flour if necessary to keep dough from sticking.
Cut out 20 cookies. Place 1/2 inch apart on a parchment-lined baking sheet. (Set aside scraps; cover with plastic wrap.) Bake cookies 4 minutes. Rotate the cookie sheet then continue baking for 2-6 minutes, or until edges brown.
Let cookies cool on a wire rack.
Repeat process with remaining dough disks. (After the last batch is cut, you can knead together all the scraps and repeat chilling, rerolling, and cutting.)
Heat chocolate in a bowl set over hot water (not touching), stirring with a silicone spatula, until almost completely melted. Remove from heat and stir until fully melted.
Add cream; stir until smooth. (The mixture should drop thickly from the spatula. If the ganache thickens before it's used, reheat in the microwave in 3-second bursts.) Set aside.
Spread bottoms of half of the cookies with a thin layer of apricot filling. Spread bottoms of the remaining cookies with a slightly thicker ganache layer. Set the chocolate cookies, coated side down, on the apricot cookies. Let sit for a minimum of 30 minutes.
Store airtight at room temperature, 5 days; frozen, 6 months.

Almond-Crust Raspberry Cheesecake 
1 pint raspberries
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
Vegetable oil cooking spray
2 cups slivered almonds
1/4 cup packed light-brown sugar
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
Parchment paper
20 oz lowfat cream cheese, at room temperature
3/4 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup lowfat sour cream
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
4 large eggs

Heat oven to 325 degrees . Lightly coat an 8 inch springform pan with cooking spray. Line bottom of pan with a round of parchment paper and wrap the outside with foil. In a small saucepan, simmer raspberries, granulated sugar and 2 tablespoons water over medium heat; cook until sauce thickens, 10 minutes. Set aside.
In a food processor, pulse almonds until very finely ground. Add brown sugar,butter and a pinch of salt; pulse briefly to combine. Transfer to prepared pan and press firmly into bottom to form an even crust. Add cream cheese, granulated sugar, sour cream and vanilla to food processor; puree until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, blending after each addition. Pour filling onto crust. Spoon raspberry sauce on top and swirl using the tip of a knife, wiping it clean occasionally.
Place springform pan in a 9 inch x 13 inch baking pan. Add warm water to come 1 inch up side of springform pan. Bake until cheesecake center jiggles slightly, 50 to 60 minutes. Let stand at room temperature until cool enough to touch. Remove springform pan from water, cover cake with foil and refrigerate at least 4 hours or overnight. Run a table knife between edge of cheesecake and springform pan before gently removing side of pan.

Nutty Crunch Cookies 
1 cup blanched hazelnuts
1/2 cup unsalted, roasted almonds
1/2 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 vanilla bean, split lengthwise, or 1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup (2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Toast hazelnuts on a rimmed baking sheet, tossing occasionally, until golden brown, 8–10 minutes. Let cool.
Combine almonds, brown sugar, salt, and 1/2 cup hazelnuts in a food processor. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean; reserve pod for another use. Pulse until finely ground, then pulse in flour just to combine. Add butter; process until dough just comes together.
Roll dough into 1 inch balls and place on parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing 2 inch apart. Flatten cookies to a little less than 1/2 inch thick. Coarsely chop remaining 1/2 cup hazelnuts and press gently into cookies.
Bake, rotating sheets halfway through, until cookies are golden brown, 15–18 minutes. Transfer baking sheets to wire racks and let cookies cool completely.
DO AHEAD: Cookies can be baked 5 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Flourless Oatmeal Chocolate-Chunk Cookies 
2 1/4 cups old-fashioned oats, divided
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1/3 cup packed light-brown sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 cup coarsely chopped bittersweet chocolate (at least 65 percent cacao)
Parchment paper
1/2 tsp kosher or sea salt

Heat oven to 375 degrees  and set racks in upper and lower thirds of oven. In a food processor or blender, pulse 1 1/4 cups oats until very finely ground. Add cornstarch and baking powder; pulse briefly. In a large bowl, use an electric mixer to cream butter and sugars until light and fluffy. Add egg and vanilla and beat until smooth. Add flour mixture and stir until just combined. Fold in chocolate and remaining oats. Drop dough by tablespoons, 2 inches apart, onto 2 parchment-lined baking sheets. Sprinkle with salt. Bake until edges are golden brown, about 15 minutes. Cool on sheets 5 minutes; transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.

Dirt Bombs 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 cup whole milk
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted

Preheat oven to 375 degrees . Coat a standard 12-cup muffin pan with nonstick spray. Whisk flour, baking powder, salt, and nutmeg in a medium bowl; set aside.
Using an electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Beat in egg. With mixer on low speed, add dry ingredients in 3 additions alternating with milk in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients.
Divide batter among muffin cups and bake, rotating pan halfway through, until a tester inserted into center comes out clean, 30–35 minutes. Let cool 5 minutes in pan, then transfer to a wire rack.
Mix sugar and cinnamon in a medium bowl. Working one at a time, dip tops of muffins in melted butter, then cinnamon sugar.
DO AHEAD: Muffins can be made 6 hours ahead. Keep tightly

Peanut Maple Fudge Bars 
3/4 cup flour
1/4 cup powdered sugar
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
Pinch of fine sea salt
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) melted salted butter
10 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup smooth peanut butter
8 tablespoons (1 stick) salted butter
2/3 cup sweetened condensed milk
3/4 cup maple syrup
1 cup (lightly packed) light brown sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons cream cheese
3/4 cup lightly salted roasted peanuts

Preheat oven to 350 degrees . Line an 8 inch x 8 inch baking pan with 2 pieces of parchment paper, leaving at least 3 inch of overhang.
For the base, mix together flour, powdered sugar, cocoa powder, and salt in a medium bowl.
Add melted butter and mix thoroughly until you have a soft dough. Break dough into small pebbles and spread evenly in bottom of lined baking pan, then gently press dough into pan in an even layer. Bake until it turns a shade darker, 15 minutes. Let base cool a bit.
Meanwhile, make chocolate layer: Put chocolate in the top of a double boiler, or in a metal bowl set over a pan of simmering water. Add peanut butter and heat gently until melted, stirring occasionally.
Pour 1/2 cup of warm melted chocolate mixture over the baked base, and spread it out evenly. Refrigerate until set. Reserve remaining chocolate mixture on top of the stove while you prepare maple fudge.
Melt butter in a 2-quart saucepan over medium heat. Add sweetened condensed milk, maple syrup, brown sugar, and salt and bring to a simmer. Boil softly, stirring often, for 10 minutes. (Gauge doneness using the cold-water test: Fill a bowl with cold water and drop about 1/2 teaspoon of the mixture into it. If it forms a soft ball, it's ready.)
Fill a sink with at least 6 inch cold water, and set saucepan in it (making sure not to slosh water into fudge). Stir constantly with a sharp-edged wooden spoon, scraping down sides of pot, until mixture starts to turn granular, about 5 minutes. When it starts to look like sand and becomes hard to stir, remove pan from water; add cream cheese. Stir, scraping sides, until mixture is smooth and light.
Immediately spread maple fudge in an even layer over cooled chocolate layer.
Scatter peanuts on top and press them lightly into maple filling. Gently heat remaining chocolate mixture to return it to a liquid state. Drop chocolate from the side of a rubber spatula onto maple layer. Swipe across peanuts to cover them completely.
Return baking pan to refrigerator and chill until completely set, about 4 hours. Cut into small bars.

Burmese Semolina Cake 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, cooled slightly, divided, plus more
1 1/4 cups semolina flour
1 large egg
1 14-ounce can coconut milk
1 1/2 cups half-and-half
1/3 cup sugar
1 teaspoon kosher salt
Coconut ice cream (for serving)
Toasted unsweetened coconut flakes (for serving)

Preheat oven to 425 degrees . Butter an 8x8 inch baking dish. Toast semolina in a large dry skillet over medium-high heat, stirring, until darkened and nutty-smelling, about 2 minutes. Let cool.
Whisk egg, coconut milk, half-and-half, sugar, salt, and 1 tablespoon butter in a large saucepan. Gradually whisk in semolina and bring mixture to a boil over medium-high heat, whisking, until mixture is very thick and pulls away from the sides of saucepan, about 4 minutes. Scrape batter into baking dish.
Bake cake until golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 45-50 minutes. Transfer dish to a wire rack. Brush cake with remaining 1 tablespoon butter; let cool slightly. Serve with coconut ice cream, topped with coconut flakes.
Do ahead: Cake can be baked 1 day ahead; cover and chill.

Cherry Buttermilk Clafoutis 
1/2 cup natural cane sugar, divided
16 ounces sweet cherries, pitted
3 eggs
1 1/4 cups buttermilk
1/3 cup almond flour
2 tablespoons brown rice flour or all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh ginger
Fine sea salt
Powdered sugar, for dusting

Preheat oven to 375 degrees . Grease a 9 inch pie pan with unsalted butter. Sprinkle with 1 tablespoon sugar.
Arrange cherries in a single layer on bottom of pan. Set aside.
In a bowl, whisk together eggs, buttermilk, remaining sugar, almond flour, brown rice flour, vanilla, ginger, and 1/4 teaspoon salt until smooth. Pour evenly over fruit.
Bake about 50 minutes, until golden brown around edges and set in center. Test by inserting a toothpick in center-if it comes out clean, the clafoutis is ready.
Allow to cool slightly, then dust with powdered sugar and serve.

Chestnut Coffee Cake 
1/2 cup almond flour or meal
1/3 cup sugar
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2 inch pieces
1/2 cup coarsely chopped vacuum packed or jarred roasted chestnuts
3 tablespoons light brown sugar, divided
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more
2 cups all-purpose flour, plus more
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs, room temperature
1 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Combine almond flour, sugar, all-purpose flour, and salt in a small bowl. Work in butter with your fingers until mixture holds together when pinched but is still crumbly; cover and chill.
Cook chestnuts, 2 tablespoons brown sugar, and 2 tablespoons water in a small skillet over medium heat, stirring constantly, until pan is almost dry and chestnuts are coated in syrup, about 5 minutes. Transfer to a small bowl and let cool. Toss in cocoa and remaining 1 tablespoon brown sugar.Cook chestnuts, 2 tablespoons brown sugar, and 2 tablespoons water in a small skillet over medium heat, stirring constantly, until pan is almost dry and chestnuts are coated in syrup, about 5 minutes. Transfer to a small bowl and let cool. Toss in cocoa and remaining 1 tablespoon brown sugar.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees . Butter pan and line bottom with a round of parchment paper; butter parchment and flour pan. Whisk baking powder, baking soda, salt, and 2 cups flour in a medium bowl.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat sugar and 1/2 cup butter until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend between additions. Beat in sour cream and vanilla. Mix in dry ingredients. Scrape half of batter into prepared pan. Sprinkle chestnut filling over; top with remaining batter, then streusel.
Place pan on a rimmed baking sheet and bake cake until top is golden brown and a cake tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 45–55 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool before unmolding.

Strawberry-Elderflower Cake 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted, slightly cooled, plus more, room temperature, for pan
1 cup granulated sugar, plus more for pan
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour, sifted
1/4 teaspoons kosher salt
6 large eggs
1 pound strawberries, hulled, quartered
1/4 cup granulated sugar
3 tablespoons elderflower, raspberry, or unseasoned rice vinegar
2 large egg whites
A pinch of kosher salt
2 1/2 cups powdered sugar
Elderflowers (optional; for serving)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 9 inch-diameter cake pan and sprinkle with granulated sugar. Whisk flour and salt in a small bowl; set aside.
Whisk eggs and 1 cup granulated sugar in a heatproof bowl and place over a saucepan of simmering water (bowl should not touch water). Heat, whisking constantly, until sugar is dissolved and mixture is warm to the touch, about 4 minutes. Remove bowl from heat and, using an electric mixer on high speed, beat egg mixture until it is pale and tripled in volume, about 5 minutes.
Gently fold reserved dry ingredients into egg mixture in 3 additions, then fold in melted butter. Scrape batter into prepared pan and smooth top. Bake cake until golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 25–30 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool in pan before turning out.
Bring strawberries, granulated sugar, and 2 tablespoons vinegar to a simmer in a medium saucepan. Crush berries with a spoon to release more juices and simmer until berries are completely soft and mixture resembles a coarse jam, 5–8 minutes. Transfer to a medium bowl; let cool.
Using a long serrated knife, slice cake in half horizontally. Spread strawberry mixture over bottom layer of cake and place top layer over strawberry mixture.
Whisk egg whites, salt, and remaining 1 tablespoon vinegar in a medium bowl until frothy. Gradually whisk in powdered sugar; thin icing with water as needed (it should be pourable).
Place cake on a wire rack set inside a rimmed baking sheet and pour icing over cake. Spread with an offset spatula to smooth top and cover sides. Let stand at room temperature until set, at least 30 minutes. Decorate with elderflowers, if using, just before serving.
DO AHEAD: Cake can be made 1 day ahead. Store covered at room temperature.

Torta Mimosa 
1 recipe Italian Sponge Cake , made as 2 (9-inch cakes)
Sugar, 4 tablespoons
Sweet citrus liqueur, such as Cointreau or limoncello, 4 tablespoons
1 recipe Pastry Cream , chilled until very cold, at least 4 hours

Prepare the cake: Cool the cakes to room temperature.
Trim the crusts on one of the cakes so there are no dark parts showing. Carefully slice the cake in half horizontally so you have two layers. Set them aside. Trim the top and side crusts of the second cake, leaving the bottom dark. Carefully slice the cake in half horizontally. Set aside the bottom layer. Slice the remaining layer into 1/4-inch-wide (6-millimeter-wide) strips, then cut the strips into cubes. Set the cubes aside.
Assemble the cake: Put the sugar and 1/2 cup (4 fluid ounces/120 milliliters) water in a small saucepan and bring to a boil. Remove from the heat and stir in the liqueur. Let cool to room temperature.
Put the bottom cake layer on a serving plate. Moisten with one third of the liqueur syrup, then spread with a little less than one third of the pastry cream. Repeat with the next two layers, then spread the remaining pastry cream on the sides of the cake. Press the cake cubes onto the top and sides of the cake. Loosely cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate until set, about 2 hours. Serve cold. Leftovers can be refrigerated for up to 5 days or frozen for at least 6 weeks.

Mamool Walnut Cookies 
3 pounds pistachio or walnuts, shelled and coarsely chopped
3 tablespoons butter, ghee or corn oil
3 tablespoons rose water
3 tablespoons orange blossom water
1 cup superfine sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Pinch ground cloves
2 pounds fine semolina flour
1 pound white farina
1 pound all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon mastic
1 tablespoon mahlab
1 teaspoon active dry yeast
1 tablespoon sugar
2 cups milk or orange blossom water
Confectioners' sugar for dusting

Make the filling: In a large bowl, combine the nuts with the butter, rose water, orange blossom water, sugar, cinnamon and cloves; stir to thoroughly coat the nuts. Set aside.
Make the dough: In a large bowl, combine the semolina, farina and flour. Sprinkle the mastic and mahlab over the dry ingredients. Make a well in the middle of the dry ingredients and add the yeast and sugar to the well. Add 3 tablespoons warm water to the yeast mixture and let sit until it begins to foam, about 1 minute. Pour in the milk and, with a fork, gradually mix the wet and dry ingredients together until a dough forms.
Transfer the dough to a clean work surface and knead until it is pillow soft and workable. If the dough becomes too stiff to work with, gradually sprinkle in water to bring it to a workable consistency. Return the dough to the bowl and set aside on the counter for 1 hour, covering the bowl with a clean kitchen towel to prevent the dough from drying out as you shape the cookies.
Preheat the oven to 370 degrees F. Prepare two baking sheets with parchment paper.
Place about 3 tablespoons dough in the palm of one hand and use the other palm to roll it into a ball. Make an indentation in the ball with your finger. Spoon 1 1/2 tablespoons of the nut mixture into the indentation, then bring the edges of the dough up around the filling. Pinch the edges all around to seal in the filling. Flip the cookie over into the other hand, seam-side down, and gently press until the seam side is flattened. Place the cookie on a prepared baking sheet and repeat with the remaining dough.
Bake until the cookies are pale blond, 12 to 15 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack to cool. The cookies can be stored at room temperature for 2 days; they will keep in an airtight container in the refrigerator up to 2 weeks or in the freezer up to 3 months. Before serving, dust liberally with confectioners' sugar.

Peach-Tarragon Shortcake 
4 large ripe peaches
2 sprigs tarragon
1/4–1/2 cup sugar
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1 sprig tarragon
1 cup cake flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup all-purpose flour, plus more for surface
2 teaspoons sugar, plus more for sprinkling
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy cream
Whipped cream (for serving)

Peaches Using the tip of a paring knife, score an X in the bottom of each peach. Cook in a large pot of boiling water just until skins begin to peel back where cut, about 1 minute. Using a slotted spoon, transfer to a bowl of ice water; let cool. Peel; cut over a medium bowl into 1/4 inch-thick wedges, collecting juices.
Add tarragon and sugar to peaches and toss to combine. Let stand, tossing occasionally, until peaches release their juices and sugar is dissolved, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 425 degrees . Heat butter and tarragon in a small saucepan over medium heat until butter is melted; set aside.
Whisk cake flour, baking powder, salt, 1 cup all-purpose flour, and 2 teaspoons sugar in a large bowl. Drizzle chilled cream over and mix gently until dough holds together.
Turn out dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead into a shaggy ball, being careful not to overwork. Place on a parchment-lined rimmed baking sheet and form into an 8 inch-diameter disk, about 1/2 inch thick. Brush with some reserved melted butter and sprinkle with sugar.
Bake until shortcake edges are golden brown, 12–15 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees . Bake until golden brown all over, 8–10 minutes longer.
Brush shortcake with remaining melted butter. Transfer to a wire rack and let cool. Cut shortcake into 8 wedges, spoon peaches and their juices over, and top with whipped cream.

Lemon-Souffle Pudding Cake 
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for baking dish
3/4 cup granulated sugar, plus more for baking dish
1 cup buttermilk
1/2 cup creme fraiche or sour cream
2 teaspoons finely grated lemon zest
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice
3 large eggs, separated
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
Powdered sugar (for serving)
Fresh blackberries (for serving; optional)

Preheat oven to 325 degrees . Butter a shallow 1 1/2–2-quart baking dish, then sprinkle with granulated sugar. Stir buttermilk, creme fraiche, lemon zest, and lemon juice in a medium bowl just to combine and set aside.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat 4 tablespoons butter and 3/4 cup granulated sugar in a large bowl until well combined, about 4 minutes. Add egg yolks 1 at a time, beating to blend between additions and scraping down sides of bowl as needed.
Reduce mixer speed to low and, with motor running, add reserved buttermilk mixture in 3 additions, alternating with flour in 2 additions, beginning and ending with buttermilk mixture (batter will be extremely loose).
Using an electric mixer with clean, dry beaters, beat egg whites and salt on high speed in a medium bowl until soft peaks form. Fold egg whites into pudding cake batter in 3 additions, just barely blending after each addition.
Scrape pudding cake batter into prepared baking dish and place on a rimmed baking sheet. Bake until top is puffed and golden brown and center barely jiggles, 35–45 minutes. Transfer baking dish to a wire rack and let pudding cake cool at least 30 minutes.
Serve pudding cake dusted with powdered sugar and topped with blackberries, if desired.

Samoas Girl Scout Cookie Ice Cream Cake 
3 (7-ounce) boxes Samoas (Caramel deLites) Girl Scout cookies, coarsely chopped
3 pints vanilla ice cream, slightly softened
1/2 cup purchased or homemade caramel sauce
1/2 cup purchased or homemade chocolate sauce
Equipment: 1 (9-inch-round, 1-inch-deep) cake pan; plastic wrap

Line a 9-inch-round, 1-inch-deep cake pan with plastic wrap, making sure the plastic is tucked into the sides of the pan and leaving at least a 2-inch overhang on all sides. Fill the bottom of the pan with about 1/3 of the coarsely chopped cookies, arranging them so that they lay flat against the cake pan (there will be some small gaps in the  inchcrust inch).
In a large bowl, combine the remaining chopped cookies with the slightly softened vanilla ice cream, folding to incorporate the cookies into the ice cream. Spoon the ice cream on top of the cookies in the pan, packing it down into the cookie crust. Use a knife to spread the ice cream evenly and smooth the top. Press plastic wrap directly on the surface of the ice cream then wrap the entire cake pan in a double layer of plastic wrap and freeze until firm, at least 2 hours or overnight. DO AHEAD: The ice cream cake can be prepared ahead, wrapped in a double layer of plastic wrap, and frozen up for to 2 days.
In a small saucepan over low heat, warm the caramel sauce. In a second small saucepan over low heat, warm the chocolate sauce.
Take the ice cream cake out of the freezer and remove the double layer of plastic wrap, along with the plastic wrap pressed on the surface of the ice cream. Using the overhanging plastic wrap that lines the pan, carefully lift the cake from the pan and place it on a large plate or serving platter. Place a second large plate on top of the cake then invert the cake, remove the first plate, and peel off the plastic wrap. Place the original large plate or platter on top of the cake and invert it a final time so that the cookie crust is on the bottom. Using 2 small spoons, drizzle the chocolate and caramel sauces over the ice cream cake. Serve immediately.

Sophie's Chocolate Biscuit Cake 
250g (9oz) milk chocolate
100g (4oz) unsalted butter
5 tbsp whipping cream
1 tbsp golden syrup
400g (14oz) packet digestive biscuits
100g (4oz) white chocolate (optional)

Break the chocolate into squares and place in a heatproof bowl with the butter. Set over a pan of simmering water and allow to melt. Remove from the heat and mix in the cream and golden syrup by hand, which will take a few minutes.
Break the digestive biscuits into large chunks and gently fold into the chocolate mixture so as not to break up the biscuits too much. Using a spatula, transfer to a 900ml (1 1/2 pints) loaf tin that has been double lined with clingfilm, as this makes the cake much easier to lift out. Chill for at least 2 hours, though overnight is best.
To serve, turn out the chocolate biscuit cake onto a platter. Break the white chocolate into squares, if using, and melt in a heatproof bowl over a pan of simmering water. Drizzle all over the chocolate biscuit cake and leave at room temperature to set for about 20 minutes before cutting into slices and arranging on plates.

Lemon Cake with Raspberries and Pistachios 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
4 large eggs
1 1/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 tablespoons finely grated lemon zest
1 tablespoon plus 1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
3/4 cup olive oil
1 cup fresh raspberries (about 4 ounces)
3 tablespoons chopped unsalted, raw pistachios

Preheat oven to 350 degrees . Coat a 9 inch diameter cake pan with nonstick spray. Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in a small bowl.
Using an electric mixer, beat eggs and 1 cup sugar until light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. With mixer running, add vanilla and 1 tablespoon lemon juice, then gradually add oil, mixing just until combined. Fold in lemon zest and dry ingredients.
Scrape batter into prepared pan and smooth top. Scatter berries over cake, then pistachios and 2 tablespoons sugar. Bake cake until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 45-55 minutes. Meanwhile, bring remaining 1/4 cup sugar and remaining 1/4 cup lemon juice to a boil in a medium saucepan, stirring to dissolve sugar; let lemon syrup cool.
Transfer hot cake (still in pan) to a wire rack and immediately brush with lemon syrup (use all of it). Let cake cool completely in pan.
Do ahead: Cake can be made 2 days ahead. Store wrapped tightly at room temperature.

Thin Mints Girl Scout Cookie Cheesecake 
1 (9-ounce) box Thin Mints Girl Scout cookies, coarsely chopped
7 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
2 pounds cream cheese, room temperature
1 3/4 cups sugar
4 large eggs
1/4 cup heavy cream
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder, sifted
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
1 teaspoon peppermint extract
Equipment: food processor; 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides; stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment

In the bowl of a food processor, finely grind the cookies. Add the melted butter and process until the crumbs start to stick together. Press the crumb mixture firmly into the bottom and up the sides of a 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Chill until ready to use.
Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees F.
In a dry metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water, melt the chocolate, stirring until smooth. Let cool until lukewarm.
In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the cream cheese and sugar until blended. Add the eggs, one at a time, beating until just incorporated. Add the melted chocolate, along with the heavy cream, cocoa powder, and the vanilla and peppermint extracts and beat, scraping down the bowl and paddle as necessary, until smooth and streak-free.
Pour the filling into the prepared crust, smooth the top, and bake until the center is just set, about 1 hour. Transfer to a rack to let cool for 20 minutes. Press down gently on the puffed edges to flatten then run a small sharp knife around the top edge of the pan to loosen the cake. Do not remove the pan sides. Let cool completely then cover with a double layer of plastic wrap and chill overnight. Bring to room temperature before serving, if desired. DO AHEAD: The cheesecake can be baked ahead, cooled, wrapped in a double layer of plastic wrap, and refrigerated for up to 3 days.

Chocolate-Coconut Pound Cake 
1/4 cup unsalted butter, plus more
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup virgin coconut oil, room temperature
1 1/2 cups plus 1 tablespoon sugar
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2/3 cup buttermilk
1/4 cup unsweetened coconut flakes

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter an 8x4 inch loaf pan; line with parchment paper, leaving a generous overhang on long sides. Whisk flour, cocoa powder, salt, and baking powder in a medium bowl; set aside.
Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat oil, 1/4 cup butter, and 1 1/2 cups sugar until pale and fluffy, 5–7 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend between additions; beat until mixture is very light and doubled in volume, 5–8 minutes. Add vanilla.
Reduce mixer speed to low and add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with buttermilk in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients (do not overmix; it will cause cake to buckle and split). Scrape batter into prepared pan and run a spatula through the center, creating a canal. Sprinkle with coconut and remaining 1 tablespoon sugar.
Bake cake, tenting with foil if coconut browns too much before cake is done (it should be very dark and toasted), until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 70–80 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack; let cake cool in pan 20 minutes before turning out.
DO AHEAD: Cake can be baked 5 days ahead. Keep tightly wrapped at room temperature.

Tagalongs Girl Scout Cookie Mousse Cake 
2 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
1 (6.5-ounce) box Tagalongs/Peanut Butter Patties Girl Scout cookies
1 1/2 cups peanut butter chips (about 9 ounces)
2 1/2 cups plus 2 tablespoons heavy cream
3 tablespoons creamy peanut butter (not natural, old-fashioned, or freshly ground)
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
3 tablespoons sugar
Equipment: 1 (9- by 5-inch) loaf pan; plastic wrap; stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment

Line a 9- by 5-inch loaf pan with plastic wrap, making sure the plastic is tucked into the corners and leaving at least a 2-inch overhang on all sides.
In a dry metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water, melt the chocolate, stirring until smooth. Let cool slightly.
Spread a small amount of melted chocolate on the rounded side of 9 cookies and place 3 of them, chocolate side down, on the bottom of the pan, in a row. Place another 3 cookies against each long side of the pan with the chocolate-coated sides facing the pan. Place the pan in the freezer.
In a small saucepan over low heat, combine the peanut butter chips with 1 cup plus 2 tablespoons of the heavy cream. Warm, stirring frequently, until the peanut butter chips are just melted. Remove from the heat and continue to stir until the mixture is smooth. Add the peanut butter and the vanilla and stir until incorporated.
In a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, combine the remaining 1 1/2 cups heavy cream with the sugar and beat until the cream is very thick but not yet holding peaks. Add the whipped cream to the peanut butter mixture in 3 additions and fold in just until the mousse is streak-free.
Carefully spoon about 3/4 of the mousse into the prepared pan, being careful not to move the cookies. Insert the remaining cookies into the mousse, arranging them in a row down the center of the loaf pan. Spread the remaining mousse over the wafers and carefully smooth the top. Press plastic wrap directly on the surface of the mousse then wrap the entire pan in a double layer of plastic wrap and chill until firm, at least 1 hour or overnight. DO AHEAD: The mousse cake can be made ahead, wrapped in a double layer of plastic wrap, and chilled for up to 3 days.
To serve, take the mousse cake out of the refrigerator and remove the double layer of plastic wrap, along with the plastic wrap pressed on the surface of the mousse. Using the overhanging plastic wrap that lines the pan, carefully lift and loosen the cake from the pan without removing it. Place a large plate or platter on top of the pan then invert the cake and the plate. Remove the pan and the plastic wrap and serve immediately.

Buckwheat, Bergamot & Blood Orange Chiffon Cake 
1 T lemon juice
1 1/2 t powdered gelatin
170 g/ 1/2 cup blood orange marmalade
71 g/ 1/2 cup Candied Kumquats , or other citrus peel in syrup
206 g/1 1/2 cups whole-grain buckwheat flour
1 3/4 t baking powder
1 t fine sea salt
124 g/ 1/2 cup plus 2 T superfine sugar
114 g/ 1/2 cup whole milk
65 g/3 egg yolks
56 g/ 1/4 cup grapeseed oil
37 g/2 T plus 1 t water
289 g/10 egg whites
1/4 t cream of tartar or lemon juice
114 g/ 1/2 cup water
100 g/ 1/2 cup sugar
114 g/ 1/2 cup bergamot or blood orange juice
220 g/1 1/3 cups chopped bittersweet chocolate (70%), preferably Valrhona
6 g/2 T loose-leaf Earl Grey tea (or 4 tea bags) steeped overnight in 220 g/1 cup cold heavy cream
220 g/1 cup whole milk
86 g/4 egg yolks, at room temperature
42 g/3 T sugar
Cocoa powder for dusting

To make the filling: Pour the lemon juice into a medium nonreactive bowl and add the gelatin. Stir to dissolve the gelatin, then add the marmalade and the candied citrus. Refrigerate until cool and set, about 2 hours (this can be made and refrigerated up to a day ahead).
To make the cake: Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F/165 degrees C. Line the bottom of 10-in/25-cm springform cake pan with parchment paper and set aside.
Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt into a large bowl. Add 100 g /1/2 cup of the sugar and whisk to combine.
In a medium bowl, whisk together the milk, egg yolks, oil, and water. Make a well in the flour, add the yolk mixture, then whisk thoroughly and quickly for about 1 minute until very smooth.
Put the egg whites in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment. Beat on medium speed until frothy. Add the cream of tartar and beat on medium-high speed until the whites hold soft peaks. Slowly add the remaining 24 g/2 tablespoons sugar and beat on medium-high speed until the whites hold firm, shiny peaks. Using a rubber spatula, scoop about one-third of the whites into the bowl containing the batter and, with the rubber spatula, gently fold in to lighten the batter. Gently fold the remaining whites into the batter just until combined.
Pour the batter into the prepared pan, smoothing the top with an offset spatula. Bake until a cake tester inserted into the center comes out clean, about 1 hour and 15 minutes. Let cool in the pan on a wire rack. To unmold, run a paring knife around the inside of the pan to loosen the cake, release and remove the outside ring of the pan, then invert the cake onto the wire rack and peel off the parchment. (The cake will keep, tightly wrapped, in the refrigerator for up to 4 days or in the freezer for up to 1 month.)
To make the syrup: In a medium saucepan over medium heat combine the water, sugar, and bergamot juice and bring to a simmer. Simmer, stirring occasionally, until the sugar dissolves. Remove from the heat and let cool completely.
Wash, dry, and reassemble the springform pan. With a long, thin, serrated knife, cut the cake lengthwise into five equal layers. Place one layer in the bottom of the springform pan.
To make the ganache: Place a saucepan of water over medium heat and bring to a simmer. Set a heatproof bowl over the water, taking care that the bottom of the bowl does not touch the water. Add the chocolate and heat until halfway melted. Stir gently, remove from the heat, and let cool until it registers between 95 degrees F/35 degrees C and 115 degrees F/46 degrees C on an instant-read thermometer.
Remove the tea-infused cream from the refrigerator and strain through a fine-mesh sieve into a separate medium saucepan (if using tea bags, simply discard them). Add the milk and place over medium heat. Heat until it comes to just a boil, stirring occasionally.
In a separate bowl, whisk together the egg yolks and sugar. Whisking constantly, pour one-third of the hot cream mixture into the yolk-sugar mixture, then add this mixture to the remaining cream. Stir constantly over medium heat with a wooden spoon until the mixture thickens and coats the back of a spoon. Remove from the heat and pour through a fine-mesh sieve into a clean bowl and let it cool until it registers 140 degrees F/60 degrees C on an instant-read thermometer. This is your crème Anglaise.
Measure out 600 g/2 1/4 cups créme Anglaise and add to the chocolate in four or five additions, using a heatproof spatula and vigorous strokes to incorporate. The temperature of the mixture should not exceed 113 degrees F/43 degrees C, which is why the cream is added in several additions. The mixture may appear broken at first but should come together by the final addition of cream to be smooth and glossy. Let cool slightly. With a handheld immersion blender, blend the ganache until completely smooth and uniform. (A whisk is also fine, but an immersion blender makes for an ultra-silky ganache that pours very nicely.) Use immediately.
Using a pastry brush, soak the cake layer in the pan with one-quarter of the bergamot syrup. With an offset spatula, spread a thin layer of ganache (about 1/4 in/6 mm thick) over the cake. Top with a second cake layer, soak with an additional one-quarter of bergamot syrup, and then spread with half of the marmalade filling. Top with a third layer and repeat the process, alternating with one more layer of ganache and one more layer of marmalade filling, soaking each cake layer well with syrup. Top with the final cake layer, soak with the remaining syrup, and refrigerate until the cake is firm, 1 to 2 hours, then dust with cocoa powder.
Remove the cake from the refrigerator 2 hours before serving to bring to room temperature. To store, cover tightly and keep in a cool place for up to 4 days.

Darkest Chocolate Cake With Red Wine Glaze 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into pieces, plus more for pan
1/3 cup all-purpose flour, plus more for pan
8 ounces bittersweet chocolate (at least 70% cacao), chopped
1 cup sugar
4 large eggs
3/4 teaspoons kosher salt
8 ounces bittersweet chocolate (at least 70% cacao), finely chopped
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1/2 cup red wine (such as Pinot Noir)
A 9 inch springform pan

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly butter and flour pan. Heat chocolate, sugar, and 1 cup butter in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water (bowl should not touch water), stirring, until chocolate is almost completely melted, about 3 minutes; remove from heat and continue to stir until chocolate is completely melted. Let cool completely.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, add eggs to chocolate mixture 1 at a time, beating to blend after each addition. Beat until mixture has a mousse-like consistency. Reduce speed to low and add salt and 1/3 cup flour; mix until smooth. Scrape batter into prepared pan; smooth top.
Bake cake until top is firm and edges are slightly darkened, 55–65 minutes (rely on visual cues; a tester inserted into cake's center will come out clean before cake is truly done). Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool completely in pan before turning out.
Heat chocolate, butter, and salt in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water (bowl should not touch water), stirring, until chocolate and butter are melted, about 5 minutes. Whisk in powdered sugar.
Meanwhile, bring wine just to a boil in a small saucepan.
Remove chocolate mixture from heat and whisk in wine; let cool until slightly thickened and a rubber spatula leaves a trail in mixture when stirring, 8–10 minutes.
Set cake on a wire rack set over a rimmed baking sheet. Pour glaze over cake and spread it across the top and over the edges with an offset spatula. Let cake stand at room temperature until glaze is set, 2–3 hours.
DO AHEAD: Cake can be made and glazed 2 days ahead. Chill. Bring to room temperature before serving.

Red Velvet Mug Cake 
1 large egg
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 teaspoon liquid red food coloring
3 tablespoons buttermilk
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1/4 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 cup self-rising flour
Pinch of kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon cider, white, white wine, or rice vinegar

In a large mug, whisk together the egg and oil with a fork. Stir in the food coloring, buttermilk, vanilla, and sugar. Add the cocoa, flour, salt, and vinegar. Beat the batter until smooth. Divide the batter between two mugs. Microwave separately for 1 1/2 to 2 1/2 minutes each until risen and firm.

Glazed Chocolate–Crème Fraîche Cookies 
20 ounces bittersweet chocolate (at least 70% cacao), chopped, divided
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/2 cups (packed) brown sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 large eggs
2 tablespoons crème fraîche or sour cream

Place racks in lower and upper thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Heat 8 ounces chocolate in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water (bowl should not touch water), stirring until chocolate is melted; let cool slightly. Reserve saucepan for melting more chocolate for glaze.
Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in a small bowl; set aside. Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat brown sugar and butter until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add eggs and crème fraîche and beat until just combined. Reduce speed to low and gradually mix in melted chocolate; reserve chocolate bowl. Mix in dry ingredients just to combine; fold in 8 ounces chopped chocolate. Cover and chill dough until firm, at least 30 minutes.
Drop heaping tablespoonfuls of dough onto parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing 2 inch apart. Bake cookies, rotating sheets halfway through, until edges are set but centers are still slightly soft, 15–18 minutes. Let cookies cool on baking sheets 5 minutes. Transfer to wire racks and let cool.
Melt remaining 4 ounces chocolate in reserved bowl set over reserved saucepan of simmering water. Let chocolate cool slightly, then dip or drizzle cookies with chocolate as desired. Let sit until chocolate is set, 15–20 minutes.
DO AHEAD: Cookies can be made 2 days ahead; store airtight at room temperature.

Pepparkakor (Swedish Ginger Cookies) 
3 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground ginger
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons ground cloves
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup dark corn syrup
1 teaspoon freshly grated orange zest
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 cup sugar
1 large egg, lightly beaten
Pearl sugar (for dusting)
2 large baking sheets; 2 nonstick baking mats, such as Silpats, or parchment paper; rolling pin; cookie cutters; wax paper

In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, ginger, cinnamon, cloves, baking soda, and salt.
In a small saucepan over moderate heat, warm the corn syrup and orange zest. Add the butter and sugar and continue warming, stirring occasionally, until melted. Remove from the heat and let cool to room temperature. Add the egg and whisk to combine. Pour over the flour mixture and stir to combine. Form the dough into a ball, wrap in a double layer of plastic wrap, and chill overnight.
Arrange racks in the upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with nonstick baking mats, such as Silpats, or parchment paper.
Using a lightly floured rolling pin, roll out a portion of the dough on a lightly floured surface to a 1/4 inch thickness. Using cookie cutters, cut the dough into desired shapes, such as circles, stars, hearts, bells, gingerbread men, and Christmas trees. Transfer to the prepared baking sheets and sprinkle with the pearl sugar. Bake, switching the cookies between the upper and lower racks and rotating the baking sheets about halfway through baking, until the edges are just beginning to brown, 7 to 8 minutes. Watch the cookies carefully to make sure they don't get too brown.
Let the cookies cool on baking sheets for 5 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to let cool completely. Continue rolling and cutting out the rest of the cookie dough and baking the cookies on cooled baking sheets. DO AHEAD: Pepparkakor can be baked ahead and kept, stored between sheets of wax paper in an airtight container, for up to 2 weeks, or frozen up to 1 month.

Orange Cranberry Bundt Cake 
Vegetable oil cooking spray
3 cups plus 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour, divided
2 cups granulated sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 eggs
3/4 cup lowfat buttermilk
1/2 cup olive oil
1/3 cup freshly squeezed orange juice
2 teaspoons orange zest
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup dried cranberries, coarsely chopped
1 cup confectioner's sugar
3 tablespoons Grand Marnier orange liqueur

Heat oven to 350 degrees . Coat a 10 inch Bundt pan with cooking spray and dust with 1 tablespoons flour. In a bowl, combine remaining 3 cups flour, granulated sugar, baking powder, baking soda and salt. In another bowl, whisk eggs, buttermilk, oil, orange juice, zest, vanilla and cranberries; stir into flour mixture and pour into pan. Bake until toothpick inserted into cake comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Let rest 15 minutes; transfer cake to wire rack and cool completely. In a bowl, mix confectioner's sugar and orange liqueur until smooth. With a skewer, poke several holes in top of cake and drizzle with glaze.

Tropical Fruit and Cake Trifle 
1 package (3.4 ounces) vanilla pudding
Vegetable oil cooking spray
1 1/2 cups sugar, divided
1 cup cake flour, sifted
1/8 teaspoon salt
12 large egg whites (or 2 1/2 cups store-bought egg whites)
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/2 cup peach jam
1/2 cup shredded coconut
1 1/2 cups heavy cream
1/2 teaspoon coconut extract
8 cups fruit, such as mango, papaya, kiwi, strawberries, banana, cut into 1-inch pieces

Make pudding as directed on package. Heat oven to 350 degrees . Line a 13 inch x 17 inch baking pan with parchment paper; coat with cooking spray. In a bowl, combine 3/4 cup sugar, flour and salt. In another bowl, beat egg whites with an electric mixer until foamy. Add cream of tartar; beat until soft peaks form. Slowly add remaining 3/4 cup sugar, beating until mixture is thick and shiny. Fold flour mixture into egg mixture in four batches; spread batter in pan. Bake until golden, 20 to 25 minutes. Loosen sides of cake with a knife; let cool. In a bowl, microwave jam for 30 seconds. Invert cake on cutting board; spread with jam and cut into 2-inch squares. In a nonstick pan over medium-high heat, toast coconut, stirring, 4 minutes. In another bowl, beat cream and coconut extract with an electric mixer until peaks form. Reserve 1/4 cup whipped cream. Fold pudding and 1/4 cup coconut into remaining whipped cream. In a large glass bowl, assemble trifle: Layer 1/3 cake squares, 1/3 fruit and 1/3 pudding mixture; repeat twice. Top with remaining 1/4 cup whipped cream and 1/4 cup coconut.

Sno-Ball Mug Cake 
1 large egg
3 tablespoons milk
1/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon coconut extract
1 drop pink liquid food coloring
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1/3 cup self-rising flour
Pinch of kosher salt
1/4 cup Marshmallow Fluff or mini marshmallows
Sweetened whipped cream
1/4 cup shredded coconut (sweetened or unsweetened are both fine)

In a large mug, whisk together the egg and milk with a fork. Stir in the extracts, food coloring, and sugar. Add the flour and salt. Beat the batter until smooth. Swirl in the Marshmallow Fluff. Divide the batter between two mugs. Microwave separately for 1 1/2 to 2 1/2 minutes each until risen and firm. Top each with a dollop of the whipped cream and shredded coconut.

Candy Cane Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
1/3 cup unsalted butter
1/3 cup vegetable shortening
1 large egg
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
About 16 drops red food coloring

1. In a medium bowl, combine the flour, baking powder and salt; set aside.
2. In the bowl of a stand mixer, beat the butter and shortening together at medium-high speed. Add the egg, sugar, and vanilla extract and beat to incorporate on medium speed. Add the flour mixture and mix on low speed until just incorporated.
3. Divide the dough evenly into two balls. Wrap one in plastic wrap. Place the other in a medium bowl and add the red food coloring a few drops at a time, mixing and squishing the dough with your hands to help the coloring incorporate. (Warning: You will have pink fingers!) When all the food coloring is worked in, wrap the dough in plastic wrap; refrigerate both doughs until slightly firm, about 1 hour.
4. Position a rack in the center of the oven, preheat the oven to 375 degrees F, and line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
5. Grab a small chunk of one of the doughs (about 1 tablespoon) and roll it on a clean work surface into a thin tube (about 1/4- to 1/2-inch-thick). Trim to about 4 inches in length. Repeat with the other color of dough. When you have two tubes in two different colors, lay them side by side on the work surface and roll them together gently to stick. Twist them to form a spiral of color, then shape one end into a hook shape to form a candy cane. Transfer to the prepared baking sheets. Repeat with the remaining dough.
6. Bake until the cookies are just set but not yet browned, 8 to 10 minutes. Remove and let cool on the baking sheet for 3 to 5 minutes; then transfer carefully to racks to cool completely.

Fudgy Brownie Cake 
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into small bits, plus more for greasing the canister
9 ounces dark chocolate, chopped
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs, at room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2/3 cup all-purpose flour, plus more for coating the canister
1/2 teaspoon salt

1 Generously grease the inside of the slow cooker canister by holding a small slice of butter with a paper towel and rubbing the butter all over the surfaces. Add some flour, then turn the crock this way and that to coat both the bottom and the walls with a fine, even dusting. Tap out any excess flour.
2 Set up a double boiler with about 1 inch of water in the bottom pan, simmering over medium heat—or place a large, heat-safe metal bowl over a medium saucepan with a similar amount of simmering water. Add the butter and both chocolates. Stir with a rubber spatula until about two-thirds of the chocolate has melted. Remove the top half of the double boiler or the bowl from the saucepan below, then continue stirring off the heat until all the chocolate has melted. Cool for 10 minutes.
3 Meanwhile, beat the sugar, eggs, and vanilla in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until quite thick and pale yellow, up to 10 minutes.
4 Beat in the cooled chocolate mixture until smooth, then scrape down and remove the beaters. Fold in the flour and salt with a rubber spatula, using wide, gentle arcs to make sure every speck of flour has been moistened. Pour and spread this mixture into the slow cooker.
5 Lay long strips of paper towels across the top of the slow cooker, overlapping each other and hanging down the sides for stability. Set the lid in place, then cook on high for about 1 hour 20 minutes in a small (2- to 3 1/2-quart) slow cooker, about 1 hour 40 minutes in a medium (4- to 5 1/2-quart) one, or about 2 hours in a large (6- to 8-quart) model, or until the cake is firm to the touch and the edges are dry while the middle is dark and moist. Unplug, uncover, and cool in the canister for 30 minutes before cutting out slices with a nonstick-safe knife or setting a cutting board over the cooker, inverting it, and turning the cake out.

Rosemary and Toasted-Caraway Shortbread 
1 teaspoon caraway seeds
1 cup (2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2 inch pieces
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons finely chopped fresh rosemary, plus whole leaves
1 large egg, beaten to blend
Coarse sanding sugar (for sprinkling)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Toast caraway seeds in a small dry skillet over medium-high heat, tossing occasionally, until fragrant, about 2 minutes. Coarsely chop; set aside.
Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat butter, granulated sugar, powdered sugar, and salt until very light and fluffy, 7–10 minutes (beating air into butter makes for tender shortbread). Reduce speed to low and add flour, caraway, and 2 teaspoons chopped rosemary; mix just to combine. Dough will look shaggy and a little dry (it's not!).
Press dough into two 8 inch-diameter cake pans. Brush with egg, sprinkle with sanding sugar, and top with rosemary leaves.
Bake until shortbread is golden brown and sides pull away from pan, 20–25 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack; let cool in pan before turning out and cutting into wedges or bars.
MAKE AHEAD: Shortbread dough can be made 1 month ahead; wrap tightly and freeze. Shortbread can be baked 1 week ahead; store wrapped tightly at room temperature.

Cherry Pistachio Slice-and-Bake Cookies 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/4 cup canola oil
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup dried cherries, chopped
2 ounces dark chocolate (60%–70% cacao), chopped
Vegetable oil cooking spray
1/2 cup pistachios, finely chopped

In a bowl, combine flour, baking soda and salt. In a separate bowl, using an electric mixer, beat sugar, butter and oil until smooth. Add eggs and vanilla; beat until combined. Add flour mixture to egg mixture in 5 batches. Stir in cherries and chocolate. Divide dough in half; form into two logs, 2 inches by 8 inches; wrap in plastic wrap and freeze, 1 hour. Heat oven to 350 degrees . Coat 2 baking sheets with cooking spray. Spread nuts on a cutting board; roll logs in nuts. Cut logs into 20 slices each and arrange on baking sheets. Press cookies lightly. Bake until golden, 8 to 9 minutes; transfer to wire rack.

Gingerbread Cookie Sandwiches 
3 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1 cup unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 cup (firmly packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg
1/4 cup molasses
1/3 cup unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar
1 tablespoon milk, plus more as needed

1. In a large bowl, combine the flour, baking soda, salt, and spices; set aside. In the bowl of a stand mixer, beat the butter and sugars together until they appear light and fluffy. Add the egg and mix to combine. Add the molasses and mix to combine, scraping down the sides of the bowl once if needed.
2. Working in three batches, add the dry ingredients, mixing between each addition until just incorporated. Remove the dough and turn it out onto a sheet of plastic wrap; form into a disk, wrap tightly and refrigerate until firm, at least 2 hours. (Dough can be made up to 1 day ahead.)
3. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Remove the dough and cut it in half. Re-wrap one half and place back in the fridge; let the other sit at room temperature a few minutes to soften slightly. Lightly flour a work surface and your rolling pin, and roll out the dough to 1/4-inch thick.
4. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Using cookie cutters, cut out the gingerbread men, and transfer to the prepared sheets. (If the dough feels very soft, refrigerate the gingerbread men on the baking sheet for 15 minutes before placing in the oven to bake.) Bake until cookies appear firm and like they're just starting to crisp, 12 to 15 minutes. Remove and let cool on the sheet 5 minutes, then transfer to racks to cool completely.
5. Meanwhile, make the sandwich filling. Beat together the butter, vanilla, and salt until fluffy. Add the confectioners' sugar in 2 batches and beat on low speed until incorporated. Add the milk and beat until the mixture is thick but spreadable, adding more milk in 1 teaspoon increments as needed. Spread some of the icing onto half of the cooled gingerbread men; sandwich each with another cookie.

Caramel-Fleur de Sel Mug Cake 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 tablespoon caramel sauce, store-bought or homemade
2 tablespoons milk
6 tablespoons (1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons) self-rising flour
1/2 teaspoon fleur de sel
4 caramel candies, preferably salted

In a large mug, whisk together the butter and sugar with a fork. Stir in the egg, vanilla, caramel sauce, and milk. Add the flour and 1/4 teaspoon of the fleur de sel. Beat the batter until smooth. Divide the batter between two mugs. Top each mug with a pinch of the remaining fleur de sel. Microwave separately for 30 seconds each. Place two caramel candies on the top of each partially cooked mug cake, then continue cooking 1 to 1 1/2 minutes more until risen and firm.

New Year's Rice Cake 
1 pound glutinous rice flour (also called sweet rice flour)
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/4 cup dried cherries
1/4 cup chopped candied pineapple
1/4 cup dried dates
1/4 cup chopped nuts
3 large organic eggs
3/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 1/2 cups water
Raisins, nuts, and dried cherries, for decoration

1. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (191 degrees C). Coat a 9-inch round cake pan with nonstick cooking spray.
2. Combine the rice flour, sugar, baking powder, cherries, pineapple, dates, and nuts in a large mixing bowl. Mix to combine thoroughly.
3. In a separate bowl, beat the eggs. Add the oil and water to the eggs and whisk to blend well. Pour the egg mixture into the fruit mixture and mix thoroughly.
4. Pour the batter into the prepared pan. Bake for 40 minutes, or until a knife inserted into the center comes out clean. The cake will have risen when done.
5. To remove the cake from the pan, place a serving plate over the cake pan. Holding the plate and the pan together, invert and give the pan a little shake; the cake should drop out onto the plate.
6. Decorate the cake with three raisins each for eyes, nuts for the nose, and cherries for a smile. Serve warm.

Roasted-Almond Thumbprints 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 cups unsalted, roasted almonds
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup coarse sanding or raw sugar
Jams and/or lemon curd (for filling)

Place racks in lower and upper thirds of oven; preheat to 375 degrees F. Pulse flour and almonds in a food processor until almonds are very finely ground. Add baking powder and salt and pulse to blend. Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat butter and sugar until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add egg and vanilla and beat until pale and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Reduce speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients; mix just to combine.
Place sanding sugar in a shallow bowl. Scoop out dough by the tablespoonful and roll into balls (if dough is sticky, chill 20 minutes). Roll in sugar and place on 2 parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing 2 inch apart. Using your thumb, make a deep indent in each ball. (For more exaggerated cracks, bake dough 5 minutes before indenting.)
Bake cookies, rotating baking sheets halfway through, until golden, 12–14 minutes. Transfer to wire racks and let cool. Fill with jam or curd (use a small spoon).
MAKE AHEAD: Cookies can be baked (but not filled) 2 weeks ahead; wrap tightly and freeze. Thaw before filling. Cookies can be filled 1 day ahead; store airtight at room temperature.

Molasses Cookies 
2 1/3 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
Pinch kosher salt
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
3/4 cup unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/2 cup dark brown sugar
1/2 cup granulated sugar, plus more for rolling
1 large egg
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup molasses

1. Sift the flour, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, cloves, and allspice into a large bowl.
2. Put the butter, dark brown sugar, and granulated sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer and cream them together on medium-high speed until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add the egg and the vanilla and beat to incorporate. Add the molasses and beat until combined.
3. Working in three batches, gradually add the dry ingredients to the wet, mixing on low speed to incorporate between additions. Turn the dough out onto a sheet of plastic wrap; tightly wrap, and chill for 30 minutes and up to overnight.
4. When ready to bake the cookies, position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Line 2 cookie sheets with parchment paper.
5. Scoop out 2-inch balls of dough and roll them in granulated sugar to coat; place on the baking sheets at least 2 to 3 inches apart. Press each down gently with your fingers to flatten slightly. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes, rotating the cookie sheets halfway through baking.
6. Transfer the cookies to racks to cool; serve right away or keep in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 3 days.

Carrot Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, for greasing the pans
2 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon fine sea salt or table salt
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
2 cups packed light brown sugar
4 large eggs, at room temperature
1 cup safflower or canola oil
1 pound carrots, trimmed, peeled, and coarsely grated on the largest holes of a box grater or the fine grating blade of food processor (about 3 lightly packed cups total)
2/3 cup walnuts or pecans, coarsely chopped, plus more lightly toasted nuts for garnish
2/3 cup dark or golden raisins
2 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, chilled
11 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened at room temperature
1 1/3 cup confectioners' sugar, sifted after measuring
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
Equipment: 2 (9-inch-round, 2-inch-deep) cake pans or 1 (9- by 13-inch) baking pan; parchment paper; stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment; 1 to 2 wire cooling racks

Position a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Butter the bottom and sides of 2 (9-inch-round, 2-inch-deep) cake pans and line the bottoms with parchment paper.
In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, nutmeg, and allspice.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, mix the brown sugar on the lowest speed to break up any lumps. Add 1 egg and continue to mix on low until smooth and incorporated. Add the remaining eggs, one at a time, and mix on low until smooth and incorporated. Shut off the mixer and scrape down the bowl and paddle. Return the mixer to low then add the oil in a thin steady stream and continue to beat until fully incorporated.
Add the flour mixture in 3 batches, using a large rubber spatula to fold the mixture together until just incorporated. Fold in the carrots, along with the nuts and raisins, if using.
Divide the batter between the prepared pans and smooth the tops. Bake until the layers are firm and risen and the tip of a paring knife inserted in the center of the cake emerges clean, about 40 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack to let cool for 5 minutes then invert the cake layers onto the rack and peel off the parchment paper. Use another rack or a large plate to invert the cake layers again then slide them back on to the rack so they are right side up. Let the cake layers cool completely. DO AHEAD: The cakes can be baked ahead, cooled, wrapped in a double layer of plastic wrap, and refrigerated for up to 2 days, or frozen up to 1 month.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the cream cheese and butter and beat on medium until smooth, 30 seconds to 1 minute. Shut off the mixer and scrape down the bowl and paddle. Add the confectioners' sugar and vanilla, and beat on medium, scraping down the bowl and paddle as necessary, until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes.
Place 1 cake layer on a large plate and cover the top with about 1/3 of the frosting. Invert the second layer on top of the frosted bottom layer so that the flat side (the bottom) is on top. Spread the remaining frosting on the sides and top of the cake. If you used walnuts or pecans in the cake, sprinkle the frosting with a few tablespoons of lightly toasted chopped nuts. Keep at cool room temperature until serving time. DO AHEAD: Carrot cake can be baked and frosted ahead and kept, in an airtight cake dome, at cool room temperature, for 2 to 3 days.

Carrot Cake 
1 cup honey
2 tablespoons canola or corn oil
1 4-ounce jar pureed baby-food carrots
1/4 cup egg substitute or 2 large egg whites
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups shredded carrots
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 cup whole-wheat flour
1/4 cup fat-free dry milk
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg
2 cups frozen fat-free whipped topping, thawed in refrigerator
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg or cinnamon

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly spray a 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan with cooking spray. Set aside.
In a medium bowl, stir together the honey and oil until smooth. Stir in the baby-food carrots, egg substitute, and vanilla. Stir in the shredded carrots.
In a large bowl, stir together the remaining cake ingredients. Stir in the carrot mixture. Pour into the baking pan, gently smoothing at the top.
Bake for 25 minutes, or until a wooden toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Let cool on a cooling rack before slicing.
In a small bowl, stir together the topping ingredients .Top each slice of cake with a dollop of the mixture.

Cinnamon Bun Bundt Cake 
1 envelope (1/4 ounce, 2 1/2 teaspoons) active dry yeast
1/4 cup plus 1 teaspoon granulated sugar
1/4 cup warm water (105 degrees  to 110 degrees F)
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, at room temperature
4 large egg yolks
3/4 cup buttermilk
1 teaspoon salt
3 1/2 to 4 cups all-purpose flour (spooned into cup and leveled off)
Vegetable oil for the bowl
Flour for the work surface
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted, plus more for the pan
2/3 cup plus 3 tablespoons packed light brown sugar
1 tablespoon ground cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon salt
When purchasing packages of yeast, be sure and check the  inchuse by inch date so you are working with yeast that is truly active. If you're uncertain about the temperature of the water you're using to activate it, use an instant-read thermometer to make sure you get to 105 degrees  to 110 degrees F.

In a small bowl, dissolve the yeast and 1 teaspoon granulated sugar in the warm water. Let stand for 5 minutes, or until foamy.
Meanwhile, in a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the butter and 1/4 cup granulated sugar until smooth. Beat in the egg yolks, buttermilk, and salt until well combined.
Beat in the yeast mixture. But in 3 1/2 cups of the flour until combined. Transfer the dough to a lightly floured work surface and knead until smooth, adding more flour if necessary.
Transfer the dough to a lightly oiled bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and let stand at room temperature until doubled in volume, about I hour. (If you've got an 8-cup or larger clear measuring cup, use this as your bowl—this makes it really easy to see if the dough has doubled.)
Transfer the dough to a lightly floured work surface and roll to a 12 × 18-inch rectangle. Brush weigh 3 tablespoons of the melted butter. In a small bowl, combine the 2/3 cup brown sugar, the cinnamon, and salt and sprinkle over the dough. Starting at one short end, roll into a cylinder. Cut crosswise into 10 equal pieces.
Brush a 10- to 12-cup Bundt pan with melted butter and coat with the 3 tablespoons brown sugar. Place the pieces of dough, seam side down, around the pan, angling the pieces slightly so that no piece completely covers the swirl pattern of its neighbor. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise until light and puffed, about 45 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Bake for 35 minutes, or until the buns are golden brown and well risen. Remove from the oven and let cool in the pan for 5 minutes, then invert onto a cake plate. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Tarte Bourdaloue 
2 Bosc or Anjou pears, peeled, cored and quartered
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 cup white wine (pick something delicious, fruity, and not too expensive: ask the clerk at the wine store to help you)
2 cups peeled, shredded, drained, and pressed pears (about 2 large cooking pears)
1 cup granulated sugar
1 cup brown sugar
1 1/4 cup canola oil or grapeseed oil
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour, sifted
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
4 large eggs, beaten
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon cardamom
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/2 cup whole almonds
1/2 teaspoon unsalted butter
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
One recipe French Buttercream
1 1/2 teaspoons pure all-natural almond extract

Place pears and granulated sugar in a medium saucepan. Pour in wine, then add enough water to cover the pears by at least 1/2 inch.
Simmer, uncovered, until pears can be easily pierced with the tip of a knife, but are not mushy, 10 to 15 minutes.
Strain pears, discarding the liquid, and set aside on a cutting board. Once completely cool, cut pears into thin slices.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line pans with 24 baking cups.
In a stand mixer with the paddle attachment, combine the pears, granulated sugar, and brown sugar, and mix on medium-low until well combined, about 1 minute.
With mixer running, slowly pour in the oil. Continue mixing until combined. Stop the mixer, remove the bowl and paddle, and use the paddle to scrape the insides of bowl, making sure everything is fully incorporated.
Sift together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cardamom, and nutmeg and add to the batter. Reattach the bowl and paddle to the mixer, and mix on medium until just combined, then add eggs and continue mixing until the batter is homogenous, about 10 to 20 seconds. Remove the bowl and paddle from the mixer and, once again, use the paddle to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl, ensuring that everything is well mixed.
Scoop cake batter into the prepared baking cups, filling them three quarters of the way.
Bake in the middle of the oven for 20 to 25 minutes, rotating the pan halfway through. The cupcakes are done when the centers spring back when you touch them.
Remove the cupcakes from oven, and let cool completely while you make the almonds and buttercream. Leave the oven on.
Depending on the kind of pears you use, your cake batter may appear loose and watery. If this happens to you, add another 1/4 cup of flour, then allow cake to sit in the refrigerator for 10 minutes or so to allow the batter to hydrate a bit before baking.
Line a baking sheet with aluminum foil. Using a sturdy chefs knife, roughly chop the almonds.
Place in a hot oven until toasted, 5 to 7 minutes.
Remove the sheet from the oven, and immediately add the butter and salt. Gather up the corners of the aluminum foil, pinch to seal, then vigorously shake to coat the almonds. Set aside to cool.
Prepare the recipe for French Buttercream . Add the almond extract and beat well.
Fill a pastry bag fitted with a fluted tip with the almond buttercream, and pipe onto each pear cupcake.
Fan a few slices of pear across each cupcake. Sprinkle the chopped roasted almonds on top.

Chocolate-Cinnamon Coffee Cake 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
1/2 cup blanched hazelnuts, chopped
2 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 cup sugar, divided
2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/4 teaspoons kosher salt
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 large eggs
1 cup plain whole Greek yogurt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 8 inch square baking pan; set aside. Toss hazelnuts, chocolate, cinnamon, and 1/4 cup sugar in a bowl.
Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat butter and remaining 3/4 cup sugar in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in vanilla. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend between additions and occasionally scraping down sides of bowl. With mixer on low speed, add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with yogurt in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients.
Pour half of batter into prepared pan and smooth top; top with half of hazelnut mixture. Spoon remaining batter over and smooth top; top with remaining hazelnut mixture. Bake cake until top is golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 40–45 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack; let cake cool in pan before turning out.
DO AHEAD: Cake can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Salted Honey and Chocolate Bark 
12 ounces saltine or Ritz crackers
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup honey
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 teaspoon baking soda
6 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, melted
1/2 cup dried tart cherries or sweetened dried cranberries
2 tablespoons coffee beans, crushed
1/4 cup roasted hazelnuts, chopped
2 tablespoons roasted cacao nibs
2 teaspoons flaky sea salt (such as Maldon)
A candy thermometer

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Using your hands, coarsely crumble crackers onto a parchment-lined baking sheet. Toast in oven until golden brown, 8–10 minutes. Transfer baking sheet to a wire rack and let crackers cool.
Meanwhile, heat sugar, honey, and butter in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, until butter is melted. Fit saucepan with thermometer and cook, whisking frequently, until thermometer registers 300 degrees F, 8–10 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in baking soda (mixture will bubble vigorously). Quickly pour mixture over crackers, spreading to coat evenly. Let cool completely.
Drizzle chocolate over cooled crackers; immediately top with cherries, coffee beans, hazelnuts, and cacao nibs and sprinkle with salt. Chill until chocolate is hardened, at least 10 minutes. Break bark into pieces.
MAKE AHEAD: Bark can be made 3 days ahead. Wrap tightly and keep chilled.

Original New York Cheesecake 
1 recipe 9-inch Junior's Sponge Cake Crust
Four 8-ounce packages PHILADELPHIA cream cheese (use only full fat), at room temperature
1 2/3 cups sugar
1/4 cup cornstarch
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
2 extra-large eggs
3/4 cup heavy whipping cream
1 recipe 8-inch Junior's Sponge Cake Crust
Three 8-ounce packages PHILADELPHIA cream cheese (use only full fat), at room temperature
1 1/3 cups sugar
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
2 extra-large eggs
2/3 cup heavy whipping cream

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Make and bake the cake crust as directed and leave it in the pan. Keep the oven on.
2. In a large bowl, using an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment if your mixer has one, beat 1 package of the cream cheese, 1/3 cup of the sugar, and the cornstarch together on low until creamy, about 3 minutes, scraping down the bowl several times. Blend in the remaining cream cheese, one package at a time, beating well and scraping down the bowl after each.
3. Increase the mixer speed to medium and beat in the remaining sugar, then the vanilla. Blend in the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each. Beat in the cream just until completely blended. The filling will look light, creamy, airy, and almost like billowy clouds. Be careful not to overmix! Gently spoon the batter over the crust.
4. Place the cake pan in a large shallow pan containing hot water that comes halfway (about 1 inch) up the side of the springform. Bake until the edge is light golden brown, the top is light gold, and the center barely jiggles, about 1 1/4 hours. If the cake still feels soft around the edge, let it bake for 10 minutes more (the cooking time will be about the same for both the 8- and 9-inch cheesecakes). Remove the cheesecake from the water bath, transfer to a wire rack, and let cool for 2 hours (just walk away—don't move it). Then, leave the cake in the pan, cover loosely with plastic wrap, and refrigerate until completely cold before serving, preferably overnight or for at least 6 hours.
5. Release and remove the side of the springform, leaving the cake on the bottom of the pan. Place on a cake plate. Refrigerate until ready to serve. Slice with a sharp straight-edge knife, not a serrated one, rinsing the knife with warm water between slices. Refrigerate any leftover cake, tightly covered, and enjoy within 2 days, or wrap and freeze for up to 1 month.

Sticky Toffee Pudding with Blood Orange, Tangerine, and Whipped Crème Fraîche 
1/2 pound whole Medjool dates, pitted and chopped
1 teaspoon baking soda
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, softened, plus more for the pan
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup dark-brown sugar
1/4 cup granulated sugar
2 extra-large eggs
1 recipe Toffee Sauce
3 blood oranges
2 tangerines
6 kumquats
1 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons crème fraîche

Place the dates and baking soda in a bowl, and pour 1 cup boiling water over them. Let them sit for 1 hour, and then strain the dates (reserve the water). Purée them in a food processor, pour the liquid in, and pulse to combine.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Prepare a 9-inch springform pan by spreading butter on the inside surfaces, lining the bottom with parchment paper, and buttering the parchment.
Sift the flour and baking powder together. Stir in the salt.
In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter and sugars at medium-high speed for 4 to 5 minutes, until light and fluffy. Add the eggs, and beat until fluffy again. Add the date purée and the flour mixture, alternating, to the butter mixture, and combine well.
Pour the batter into the prepared pan. Bake for 35 minutes, until the pudding is dark brown. Immediately after removing the pudding from the oven, pour 1/2 cup of toffee sauce over the top. Let the pudding rest for 15 minutes before serving.
While the pudding is baking, cut the stem and blossom ends from the blood oranges. Place the oranges cut-side down on a cutting board. Following the contour of the fruit with your knife, remove the peel and cottony white pith, working from top to bottom, and rotating the fruit as you go. Slice each orange into 8 to 10 pinwheels.
Peel the tangerines, separate them into segments, and remove all the white veins, or pith. Slice the kumquats into pinwheels. Chill the fruit until you are ready to serve.
Using a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment (or by hand), whip the cream and crème fraîche together to soft peaks.
Slice six pieces of warm pudding (the pudding serves twelve) and place them on six dessert plates. Spoon the rest of the warm toffee sauce over the slices. On each plate, dollop a heaping tablespoon of the whipped crème fraîche next to each piece and arrange the citrus evenly over and around the pudding. Scatter the kumquats in a beautiful natural style.

Hazelnut Butter Cake with Sea Salt Caramel 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more
1 cup all-purpose flour, plus more
1/2 cup blanched hazelnuts
1 cup granulated sugar, divided
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
3 large eggs
1 tablespoon raw or granulated sugar
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
3/4 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
1/2 tablespoon flaky sea salt (such as Maldon)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter an 8 inch-diameter cake pan. Line with a parchment round; butter parchment. Dust pan with flour.
Pulse hazelnuts and 1 tablespoon granulated sugar in a food processor until finely ground; set aside 2 tablespoons nut mixture. Whisk baking powder, salt, 1 cup flour, and remaining nut mixture in a medium bowl.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat 1/2 cup butter and remaining granulated sugar in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend between additions. Reduce speed to low and mix in dry ingredients. Scrape batter into prepared pan, and sprinkle with reserved nut mixture and raw sugar.
Bake until cake is golden brown and a tester inserted into the center of cake comes out clean, 40–45 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack; let cake cool in pan before turning out.
DO AHEAD: Cake can be baked 1 day ahead. Keep wrapped tightly at room temperature.
Bring granulated sugar, corn syrup, and 2 tablespoons water to a boil in a medium saucepan over medium-high heat, stirring to dissolve sugar. Boil, swirling pan occasionally, until mixture turns a deep amber color, 8–10 minutes. Remove from heat and gradually add cream (mixture will bubble vigorously). Cook over medium heat, stirring occasionally, until smooth, about 2 minutes. Remove from heat and mix in butter and salt.Let cool slightly before serving with cake.
DO AHEAD: Caramel sauce can be made 5 days ahead. Cover and chill. Bring to room temperature before serving.

Chewy Molasses Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
3/4 teaspoons ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 large egg
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1/3 cup mild-flavored (light) or robust-flavored (dark) molasses
1/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
Coarse sanding or raw sugar (for rolling)

Place racks in lower and upper thirds of oven; preheat to 375 degrees F. Whisk flour, baking soda, cinnamon, ginger, cardamom, and salt in a small bowl. Whisk egg, butter, granulated sugar, molasses, and brown sugar in a medium bowl. Mix in dry ingredients just to combine.
Place sanding sugar in a shallow bowl. Scoop out dough by the tablespoonful and roll into balls (if dough is sticky, chill 20 minutes). Roll in sugar and place on 2 parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing 2 inch apart.
Bake cookies, rotating baking sheets halfway through, until cookies are puffed, cracked, and just set around edges (over-baked cookies won't be chewy), 8–10 minutes. Transfer to wire racks and let cool.
MAKE AHEAD: Cookie dough can be made and rolled into balls 2 weeks ahead. Freeze on a baking sheet; transfer to resealable plastic bags. Let sit at room temperature 30 minutes before rolling in sugar.

Chocolate-Pistachio Sablés 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups (lightly packed) light brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 large egg white
5 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup unsalted, shelled raw pistachios, coarsely chopped
Flaky sea salt (such as Maldon)

Whisk flour, cocoa powder, kosher salt, and baking soda in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat butter, brown sugar, and vanilla until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Reduce speed to low and gradually add dry ingredients; mix just to combine, then mix in egg white. Fold in chocolate and pistachios.
Divide dough into 4 pieces. Roll each piece into an 8 inch–long log about 1 1/2 inch in diameter, pushing dough together if it feels crumbly. Wrap tightly in parchment paper and chill until firm, at least 4 hours. (The colder your dough, the easier it will be to slice.)
Place racks in lower and upper thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Working with 1 log of dough at a time and using a serrated knife, cut logs into 1/4 inch–thick rounds and transfer to 2 parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing 1/2 inch apart.
Sprinkle cookies with sea salt and bake, rotating baking sheets halfway through, until set around edges and centers look dry, 10–12 minutes. Transfer to wire racks and let cool.
MAKE AHEAD: Cookie dough can be made 1 month ahead; freeze instead of chilling. Slice frozen logs into rounds just before baking.

Buttermilk Cake with Sour Milk Jam and Gin-Poached cherries 
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more
2 cups all-purpose flour plus more
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup buttermilk
1 cup whole milk
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup crème fraîche
1 cup dried tart cherries
1 cup gin
1/2 cup sugar
2 teaspoons juniper berries
Fennel fronds (for serving)
A 9 inch-diameter cake pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour pan. Whisk baking soda, salt, and 2 cups flour in a medium bowl; set aside.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour pan. Whisk baking soda, salt, and 2 cups flour in a medium bowl; set aside.
Using an electric mixer, beat sugar and 1 1/4 cups butter in another medium bowl until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend between additions and scraping down sides of bowl.
Reduce mixer speed to low and, with motor running, add dry ingredients in 3 additions alternating with buttermilk in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Scrape batter into prepared pan.
Bake until cake is golden and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 40-45 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool before turning out.
DO AHEAD: Cake can be made 2 days ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.
Bring milk and sugar to a boil in a small saucepan over medium heat, stirring to dissolve sugar; reduce heat and simmer gently, whisking occasionally, until mixture measures a scant 1/4 cup, 20-25 minutes. Transfer to a small bowl; let cool (it will thicken as it sits). Whisk in crème fraîche, cover, and chill.
DO AHEAD: Jam can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.
Bring cherries, gin, sugar, juniper berries, and 1 cup water to a boil in a medium saucepan; reduce heat and simmer until liquid is syrupy, 6-8 minutes. Let cool.
Spoon a few dollops of jam onto plates. Tear cake into pieces and arrange around jam. Top with cherries and fennel fronds.
DO AHEAD: Cherries can be poached 3 days ahead. Cover and chill.

Chocolate Torte with Calvados-Poached Figs 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
1 cup superfine sugar, divided, plus more for pan
8 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1 1/2 cups blanched hazelnuts
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon kosher salt
6 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoons cream of tartar
2/3 cup Calvados (apple brandy)
2/3 cup granulated sugar
2 cups dried black Mission figs or pitted prunes (about 8 ounces), halved if large

Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 375 degrees F. Butter a 9 inch-diameter springform pan or cake pan and line with a round of parchment. Butter parchment and sprinkle pan with superfine sugar.
Melt chocolate in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water (bowl should not touch water), stirring, until smooth; let cool slightly.
Pulse hazelnuts, flour, cocoa powder, salt, and 1/2 cup superfine sugar in a food processor until finely ground; sift through a medium-mesh sieve. Pulse any larger pieces again in food processor, if needed.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat 1 cup butter and remaining 3/4 cup superfine sugar until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add egg yolks, 1 at a time, beating to blend between additions. Beat in vanilla. Reduce speed to low; mix in melted chocolate. Gradually add dry ingredients, mixing just until combined.
Using clean beaters and with mixer on medium-high speed, beat egg whites and cream of tartar in a medium bowl until stiff peaks form.
Using a rubber spatula, fold 1/3 of whites into chocolate batter to loosen, then fold remaining whites into batter just until combined. Scrape batter into prepared pan.
Bake cake 20 minutes, then reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees F and bake until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 30–40 minutes longer. Transfer pan to a wire rack; let cake cool 30 minutes before unmolding to cool completely.
DO AHEAD: Cake can be baked 2 days ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.
Bring Calvados, granulated sugar, and 2/3 cup water to a boil in a small saucepan, stirring to dissolve sugar. Add figs, reduce heat to low, and simmer gently until figs are very soft, 20–25 minutes. Let cool.
Serve cake with figs and syrup.
DO AHEAD: Figs can be poached 1 week ahead. Cover and chill.

Duck Egg Cake with Rosemary 
Unsalted butter or duck fat, for greasing
4 duck eggs
3/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons olive oil
7 tablespoons duck fat, melted
2 tablespoons minced fresh rosemary
1 1/2 cups cake flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
Healthy pinch of kosher salt

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Grease a 9-inch loaf pan with butter.
Crack the duck eggs into a large bowl, add the sugar, and beat with a whisk until well combined and slightly frothy. Drizzle in the oil and duck fat while stirring the mixture. Once the fat is well incorporated into the mixture, sprinkle the rosemary on top.
In a second bowl, whisk together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Using the whisk, stir the flour into the egg-fat mixture until combined.
Pour the batter into the prepared pan and bake for 50 minutes. Stick a toothpick into the center of the cake, and if it comes out clean, the cake is ready. If not, bake for another 10 minutes.
Let the cake cool in the pan on a cooling rack for 5 minutes, then turn it out onto the rack. Slice and eat warm or at room temperature.

Pancake Cake with Maple Cream Frosting 
1 cup all-purpose flour (spooned into cup and leveled off)
1/3 cup rye or whole wheat flour
2 tablespoons cornmeal
1/4 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons light brown sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups milk
2 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, plus more for the pan
3/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
11 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature
1/4 cup whole-milk Greek yogurt
5 tablespoons maple syrup, preferably Grade B
3 tablespoons confectioners' sugar, sifted

In a large bowl, whisk together the all-purpose flour, rye flour, cornmeal, granulated and brown sugars, baking powder, and salt. In a separate bowl, whisk together the milk, whole eggs, egg yolks, butter, and vanilla. Make a well in the center of the dry ingredients and fold in the wet just until moistened.
Coat 8-inch skillet with some melted butter and heat over medium-low heat. Pour 1/2 cup of the batter into the pan and cook for 1 1/2 minutes, or until large bubbles appear on the surface of the pancake. Carefully flip the pancake over and cook for 1 minute longer, or until the underside is just cooked through. Transfer to a plate and repeat with the remaining batter to make 6 pancakes and let cool to room temperature.
In a bowl, with and electric mixer, beat the cream cheese and yogurt until smooth. Beat in 4 tablespoons of the maple syrup and the confectioners' sugar until well combined.
Spread each pancake with one-sixth of the filling (about 5 tablespoons). Place one of the pancakes on a platter and stack the remaining pancakes on top. Drizzle the remaining 1 tablespoon maple syrup over the top of the cake.

Gâteau Breton aux Pommes 
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup heavy cream
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
12 tablespoons (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, melted, slightly cooled, divided, plus more, room temperature, for pan
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour plus more for pan
4 firm, tart apples (such as Pink Lady or Braeburn; about 2 pounds), peeled, cored, sliced 1/2 inch thick
2 tablespoons plus 1 cup sugar, divided
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
3 large eggs
Crème fraîche (for serving)
An 8 inch-diameter cake pan

Bring sugar and 1/4 cup water to a boil in a small saucepan over medium-high heat, stirring to dissolve sugar. Boil, swirling pan occasionally and brushing down sides with a wet pastry brush, until mixture turns a deep amber color, 8–10 minutes. Remove from heat and slowly add cream (mixture will bubble vigorously). Return to medium heat and cook, stirring occasionally, until smooth, about 2 minutes. Remove from heat and mix in butter and salt. Pour caramel sauce into a small heatproof jar or bowl; let cool.
Place rack in middle of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour cake pan; set aside.
Heat 2 tablespoons melted butter in a large skillet over medium heat. Add apples, sprinkle with 2 tablespoons sugar, and cook, tossing occasionally, until apples are golden brown, 10–12 minutes. Arrange half of the apples in the bottom of prepared cake pan so most of it is covered (a few gaps are okay).
Whisk baking powder, salt, lemon zest, 1 1/4 cups flour, and remaining 1 cup sugar in a large bowl. Whisk in eggs and remaining 10 tablespoons melted butter until smooth.
Pour half of batter over apples in cake pan, top with remaining apples, then pour remaining batter over. Bake cake until top is golden and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 40–50 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool slightly; turn out onto rack and let cool.
Serve cake with caramel sauce and crème fraîche.
DO AHEAD: Caramel sauce can be made 5 days ahead. Cover and chill. Cake can be baked 1 day ahead. Keep wrapped tightly at room temperature.

Chocolate-Caramel Cake with Sea Salt 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder
1 3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
3 large eggs
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/4 cups mayonnaise (not low-fat)
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
12 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
1 cup heavy cream
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 teaspoon flaky sea salt (such as Maldon)
Extra-virgin olive oil (for drizzling; optional)
Three 8 inch-diameter cake pans

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly coat cake pans with nonstick spray and line bottoms with parchment paper; spray again. Whisk flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a medium bowl.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat eggs and sugar until pale and doubled in volume, about 4 minutes. Add mayonnaise and vanilla and beat until just combined. With mixer on low speed, add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with 1 1/3 cups lukewarm water in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Scrape batter into pans, dividing evenly.
Bake cakes, rotating halfway through, until a tester inserted into the centers comes out clean, 25–30 minutes. Transfer pans to wire racks and let cool 20 minutes before turning out onto racks. Let cool completely.
Put chocolate in a medium bowl. Bring sugar, corn syrup, and 1/4 cup water to a boil in a small saucepan over medium-high heat, stirring to dissolve sugar. Boil, swirling pan occasionally and brushing down sides with a wet pastry brush, until mixture turns a deep amber color, 10–12 minutes. Remove from heat and whisk in cream (mixture will bubble vigorously). Return to medium heat and cook, stirring, until smooth, about 2 minutes. Pour caramel over chocolate and stir until mixture is smooth; let cool, stirring occasionally.
Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat chocolate mixture, gradually adding butter, until frosting is thickened and smooth, about 1 minute. Chill, stirring occasionally, until stiff enough to spread easily, 20–25 minutes.
Place 1 cake layer on a cake stand or platter. Spread 1 cup frosting over to come just beyond edges. Sprinkle with 1/4 teaspoon salt and place second cake layer on top, pressing down gently. Repeat process with 1 cup frosting and 1/4 teaspoon salt. Place third layer on top, and spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake.
Just before serving, sprinkle remaining 1/4 teaspoon salt over top of cake; drizzle slices with oil, if desired.
DO AHEAD: Cake can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill.

Pound Cake with Grand Marnier-Poached Apricots 
2 cups (4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
3 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for pan
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoons cream of tartar
1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom
2 cups superfine sugar
6 large eggs
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2/3 cup Grand Marnier
2/3 cup granulated sugar
2 cups dried apricots (about 8 ounces)
1 1 1/2 inch piece peeled ginger, sliced
Lightly sweetened whipped cream (for serving)
A 10 inch-diameter tube pan or angel food cake pan

Place a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour pan. Whisk salt, cream of tartar, cardamom, and 3 cups flour in a medium bowl.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat 2 cups butter until very light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Reduce speed to low and gradually add superfine sugar. Increase speed to high and beat until very light and creamy, 6–8 minutes longer. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating to blend between additions. Beat in cream and vanilla. Reduce speed to low; gradually add dry ingredients, mixing until mostly combined. Finish mixing with a rubber spatula just until combined. Scrape batter into prepared pan.
Bake cake, rotating halfway through, until top is golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 70–80 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack; let cake cool completely before turning out.
DO AHEAD: Cake can be baked 3 days ahead. Store tightly wrapped at room temperature.
Bring Grand Marnier, granulated sugar, and 2/3 cup water to a boil in a small saucepan, stirring to dissolve sugar. Add apricots and ginger, reduce heat to low, and simmer gently until apricots are very soft, 20–25 minutes. Let cool.
Remove ginger just before serving. Serve cake with apricots and syrup and whipped cream.
DO AHEAD: Apricots can be poached 1 week ahead. Cover and chill.

Apple and Olive Oil Cake with Maple Icing 
heaping 1/2 cup / 80 g raisins
4 tbsp water
2 1/4 cups / 280 g all-purpose flour
1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
1/4 tsp salt
1/2 tsp baking powder
1 1/4 tsp baking soda
1/2 cup / 120 ml olive oil
3/4 cup / 160 g superfine sugar
1/2 vanilla bean
2 free-range eggs, lightly beaten
3 large Granny Smith apples, peeled, cored, and cut into 3/8-inch / 1-cm dice
grated zest of 1 lemon
2 free-range egg whites
confectioners' sugar for dusting (optional)
7 tbsp / 100 g unsalted butter, at room temperature
scant 1/2 cup / 100 g light muscovado sugar
scant 6 tbsp / 85 ml maple syrup
8 oz / 220 g cream cheese, at room temperature

1. Grease an 8-inch / 20-cm springform cake pan and line the bottom and sides with parchment paper. Place the raisins and water in a medium saucepan and simmer over low heat until all of the water has been absorbed. Leave to cool.
2. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F / 170 degrees C. Sift together the flour, cinnamon, salt, baking powder, and baking soda and set aside.
3. Put the oil and superfine sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment (or use a whisk if you don't have a mixer). Slit the vanilla bean lengthwise in half and, using a sharp knife, scrape the seeds out into the bowl. Beat the oil, sugar, and vanilla together, then gradually add the eggs. The mix should be smooth and thick at this stage. Mix in the diced apples, raisins, and lemon zest, then lightly fold in the sifted dry ingredients.
4. Whisk the egg whites in a clean bowl, either by hand or with a mixer, until they have a soft meringue consistency. Fold them into the batter in 2 additions, trying to maintain as much air as possible.
5. Pour the batter into the lined pan, level it with an icing spatula, and place in the oven. Bake for 1 1/2 hours, until a skewer inserted into the center comes out clean. Remove from the oven and leave to cool in the plan.
6. Once the cake is completely cold, you can assemble it. Remove from the pan and use a large serrated knife to cut it in half horizontally. You should end up with 2 similar disks. If the cake is very domed, you might need to shave a bit off the top half to level it.
7. To make the icing, beat together the butter, muscovado sugar, and maple syrup until light and airy. You can do this by hand, or preferably, in a mixer, fitted with the paddle attachment. Add the cream cheese and beat until the icing is totally smooth.
8. Using the icing spatula, spread a layer of icing 3/8 inch / 1 cm thick over the bottom half of the cake. Carefully place the top half on it. Spoon the rest of the icing on top and use the icing spatula to create a wavelike or any other pattern. Dust it with confectioners' sugar, if you like.

White Chocolate and Wax Worm Cookies 
1 2/3 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup butter, softened
3/4 cup firmly packed brown sugar
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 large egg
2 cups white chocolate chunks or morsels
3/4 cup (about 375) frozen wax worms, thawed

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F.
In a small bowl, combine the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. In a large mixing bowl, beat together the butter, brown and granulated sugars, and vanilla extract until creamy.
Stir the egg into the butter mixture, then gradually beat in the flour mixture. Stir in the white chocolate chunks and half of the wax worms, reserving the rest for garnishing the cookies.
Drop the batter by rounded teaspoonful onto nonstick baking sheets.
Gently press 2 or 3 of the remaining wax worms into the top of each cookie.
Bake until the edges of each cookie are lightly browned, 8 to 12 minutes.
Let cookies cool on the baking sheets for 2 minutes, then transfer them to a wire rack to cool completely.

Moroccan Tea Biscuits 
1 cup sugar
1 stick unsalted butter, melted
3/4 cup whole almonds, toasted, cooled, and coarsely chopped
2 tablespoons orange-flower water
2 teaspoons anise seeds
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon pure almond extract
1/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon sesame seeds, toasted and cooled, divided
3 large eggs
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 large egg beaten with 1 tablespoon water for egg wash

Stir together sugar, butter, almonds, orange-flower water, anise seeds, extracts, and 1/4 cup sesame seeds in a large bowl. Add eggs and stir until well combined. Stir in flour, baking powder, and salt until just combined. Chill dough, covered, 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle.
Using moistened hands, halve dough and form 2 (11- by 3-inch) loaves on an ungreased baking sheet. Brush with enough egg wash to coat, then sprinkle with remaining tablespoon sesame seeds.
Bake until pale golden, about 30 minutes. Loosen from baking sheet with a spatula, then transfer loaves to a rack and cool 15 minutes. (Leave oven on.)
Cut warm loaves into 3/4-inch slices with a serrated knife and arrange biscuits, with a cut side down, on a clean baking sheet. Bake until golden, 20 to 25 minutes. Transfer to rack to cool completely.

Oatmeal Cookies with Dried Cherries 
3/4 cup/180 grams schmaltz, well chilled or frozen
1/2 cup/150 grams granulated sugar
1/2 cup/120 grams brown sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon/5 grams pure vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoons/3 grams cinnamon
1 teaspoon/5 grams kosher salt
1/2 cups/150 grams all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon/4 grams baking powder
2 cups/200 grams oats
2/3 cups/85 grams dried cherries (or other garnish as noted above)

1. Preheat your oven to 350 degrees F/180 degrees C.
2. Cut the schmaltz into chunks and put it, along with both the sugars, into the bowl of a standing mixer fitted with a paddle. Mix on high until the fat is fluffy, 2 minutes or so.
3. Add the egg, vanilla, cinnamon and mix on low, to incorporate.
4. Combine the salt, flour, and baking powder, and add this to the mixing bowl. Paddle on medium to combine, 30 seconds or so. Add the oats and paddle to combine. Add the garnish and paddle to combine.
5. Shape into golf-ball-sized orbs and put on a cookie sheet. Flatten them to your desired thickness (they won't spread much but they will puff). Bake the cookies until done, about 15 minutes.

Slice-and-Bake Oatmeal Raisin Cookies 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup whole wheat flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1/2 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups old-fashioned oats
2 cups raisins

Whisk both flours, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and nutmeg in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat butter and both sugars on high speed until light and creamy, 2-3 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend and scraping down bowl between additions. Beat in vanilla.
Reduce speed to low. Gradually add dry ingredients; mix just to combine. Fold in oats and raisins.
Divide dough between 2 large sheets of parchment paper. Using paper as an aid, roll up each piece of dough into a 1 1/2 inch diameter log. Wrap in plastic; freeze for at least 4 hours and up to 3 weeks.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Unwrap dough and cut into 1/2 inch-thick rounds (return unused dough to freezer); place 2 inch apart on a parchment paper-lined baking sheet.
Bake cookies until edges are golden brown, 15-18 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack; let cool.
DO AHEAD: Cookies can be baked 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Little Apricot Cakes 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/3 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup whole milk
2 apricots, halved, pitted, cut into 1/4 inch wedges
2 tablespoons raw sugar
A standard 12-cup muffin pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees . Coat muffin cups with nonstick spray. Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in another medium bowl, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl, until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add egg, lemon zest, and vanilla and beat until combined.
With mixer on low speed, add dry ingredients in 3 additions alternately with milk in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Divide batter among muffin cups (cups will be only 1/3 full) and smooth tops. Top with apricot slices and sprinkle with raw sugar.
Bake until cakes are golden and a tester inserted into the centers comes out clean, 20-25 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack; let pan cool 5 minutes. Transfer cakes to rack and let cool completely.
DO AHEAD: Cakes can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Cardamom Pound Cake 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
2 cups all-purpose flour plus more for pan
1 1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cardamom
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 cup whole milk
1/2 cup crème fraîche plus more for serving
1 cup sugar
3 large eggs, room temperature
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
1/4 cup sliced almonds
Tea-Poached Plums

Place a rack in middle of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter a 9x5x3 inch loaf pan; line bottom and long sides with a strip of parchment paper, leaving overhang. Butter parchment and dust pan with flour, tapping out any excess. Place a rack in middle of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter a 9x5x3 inch loaf pan; line bottom and long sides with a strip of parchment paper, leaving overhang. Butter parchment and dust pan with flour, tapping out any excess.
Whisk baking powder, cardamom, salt, and 2 cups flour in a medium bowl; set aside. Whisk milk and 1/2 cup crème fraîche in a small bowl; set aside.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat sugar and 3/4 cup butter in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend between additions and occasionally scraping down sides and bottom of bowl with a spatula, then add vanilla and almond extracts.
Reduce speed to low and add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with crème fraîche mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients; beat just until combined. Scrape batter into prepared pan, smooth top, and sprinkle with sliced almonds.
Bake cake, rotating halfway through, until golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, 55-65 minutes. (Tent with foil if browning too quickly.)
Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cake cool in pan 15 minutes. Using parchment overhang, gently remove cake from pan and transfer to rack; let cool.
Slice cake and serve with Tea-Poached Plums and crème fraîche.
DO AHEAD: Cake can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Thiebaud Pink Cake 
1/2 pound (227 g) fresh strawberries
1/2 cup (4.3 oz / 120 g) water
1/4 cup (1.8 oz / 50 g) sugar
Rose's Downy Yellow Butter Cake
3/4 cup (6.4 oz / 180 g) Lemon Curd
Vanilla Buttercream
Simple Syrup
1 fresh raspberry

To make the strawberry concentrate, wash, dry, and hull the strawberries. Cut the berries in half or quarter them if they are especially big.
Combine the strawberries, water, and sugar in a medium nonreactive saucepan and bring the mixture to a simmer over medium-low heat, stirring to help the sugar dissolve. Turn down the heat to the low, cover, and simmer until the berries are soft, 8 to 10 minutes. Remove from the heat and let the berries rest, covered, for 5 minutes.
Transfer the berry mixture to a fine-mesh sieve set over a medium nonreactive saucepan. Once all of the juice has drained, set the berries aside to use in another project. Bring the juice to a simmer over medium-low heat until it has reduced down to 1/4 cup (2.1 oz / 60 g), about 10 minutes, and set aside to cool.
To assemble the pink cake, place the cooled cake on a flat, stable work surface. Using a long, serrated knife, slice off the rounded top of the cake so that it is perfectly level. An even, flat top is key to the look of this dessert.
Using the serrated knife, split the cake horizontally into 2 even layers. Split each half in half again so that you have a total of 4 layers. Place the bottom layer on an 8-inch cardboard cake round or directly on the serving platter and set on top of a cake turntable, if you have one. Generously brush the surface of the cake with simple syrup.
Prepare the buttercream by warming and whipping it to achieve a mayonnaise-like consistency (see Working with Buttercream ). Measure out 1/2 cup (2.6 oz / 73 g) of buttercream and, using an offset spatula, spread it evenly on the bottom cake layer, being careful not to let it blop over the sides. As you spread the buttercream, let a small wall (about 1/4 inch high) form around the outer edge, creating a well for the lemon curd.
Evenly distribute 1/4 cup (2.1 oz / 60 g) of the lemon curd in the well. Set another cake layer on top and brush with simple syrup; spread with buttercream, creating a well, and fill with lemon curd just as you did with the first layer. Repeat with the third layer. Top with the final cake layer.
If necessary, warm the buttercream once again. Measure out 1 cup (5.2 oz / 146 g) of buttercream and use the offset spatula to apply it as a crumb coat, a thin coating covering all surfaces of the cake; a crumb coat will seal the exterior of the cake to help prevent crumbs from marring the final frosting. (It's important to measure out buttercream specifically for the crumb coat so that the unused buttercream remains crumb free.) Refrigerate the cake for 10 to 15 minutes to set the crumb coat.
Reserve about 1/2 cup (2.6 oz / 73 g) of buttercream for the top of the cake. Using an offset spatula, apply a thick layer of the remaining buttercream to the sides of the chilled crumb-coated cake. At this point, it's not important that the cake look pretty—it's most important that the buttercream be evenly distributed around the sides. With the cake sitting squarely in the middle of the turntable and with the offset spatula held vertically against the frosting, begin spinning the turntable. Keep the cake moving steadily in one direction and apply light pressure with the spatula; the buttercream will begin to even out. I like to imagine the spatula as the needle that stays steady while the record (or cake) spins round and round on the turntable. My goal is to make the sides perfect before adding any Thiebaud personality. Make sure to watch the vertical line of the cake; I find it helpful to look at the right side of the cake at eye level while spinning the turntable. You can add more buttercream to any spots that seem thin and whittle down any thick spots with the spatula.
Once the sides are perfectly vertical and smooth, create as much or as little texture as you want in the buttercream. I constantly refer back to Display Cakes as I try to capture the casual, slightly imperfect look of Thiebaud's cakes onto my neatly frosted sides. It's not easy! While spinning the cake on the turntable, I often hold my offset spatula vertically and gently wobble it back and forth, or I take a quick swipe at the cake with the spatula blade as the turntable spins.
When the sides are to your liking, you'll find a ring of buttercream standing up above the surface of the cake. Lightly  inchgrab inch the excess buttercream in one area with the offset spatula and pull it toward the center of the cake, spreading it toward the center. Repeat until you have a nice, clean edge all around.
If necessary, warm the reserved buttercream, and then mound it up on top of the cake in the center. Using a small offset spatula, start from the center and begin smoothing out the buttercream, inching it closer and closer to the edge of the cake. I work fairly slowly when doing this in order to get a nice, voluminous lip of buttercream where the sides and the top of the cake meet, re-creating the ring that appears around the top edge of Thiebaud's pink cake.
Place the raspberry in the center of the cake.
The cake is best served immediately.

Goat Cheese Cake with Mixed Berries 
Unsalted butter (for pan)
3/4 cup sugar plus more for pan
12 ounces fresh soft goat cheese, room temperature
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
6 large eggs, separated
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 1/2 pints mixed berries (blackberries, strawberries, blueberries, and/or raspberries)
A 9 inch-diameter springform pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees . Butter springform pan and dust with sugar, tapping out any excess.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat goat cheese, lemon zest, lemon juice, vanilla, and 3/4 cup sugar in a large bowl until smooth and creamy, about 3 minutes. Add egg yolks two at a time, beating to blend and scraping down sides of bowl between additions. Reduce speed to low, add flour, and mix just until blended.
Using clean, dry beaters, beat egg whites in a medium bowl until soft peaks form. Fold 1/4 of egg whites into goat cheese mixture just until blended; fold in remaining egg whites just until blended. Scrape into prepared pan and tap pan to level batter.
Bake cheesecake until top is set but still jiggles slightly in the center, 30-35 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack; let cool in pan.
Run a thin knife around sides of pan; unmold cake. Serve topped with berries.

July 4th Flag Cake 
1 cup boiling water
3/4 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder
1 tablespoon instant coffee granules
1/2 cup whole milk
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
2 cups all-purpose flour, plus additional flour for dusting pan
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1/2 pound) unsalted butter, softened, plus additional butter for greasing pan
1 cup packed light brown sugar
1 cup sugar
4 large eggs
2 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, at room temperature
2 sticks (1/2 pound) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar, sifted
1 1/2 pints raspberries (about 3 cups total)
1/2 pint blueberries (about 1 cup total)
Equipment: 13- by 9-inch metal baking pan, stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, pastry bag, star-shaped pastry tip (such as Wilton #2110)

Position a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees F.
Butter the bottom and sides of a 13- by 9-inch metal baking pan and line the bottom with wax or parchment paper. Butter the paper and dust the pan with flour, knocking out any excess.
In a medium bowl, whisk together the boiling water, cocoa powder, and instant coffee granules until smooth. Whisk in the milk and vanilla.
In a second medium bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda, and salt.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the butter with both sugars and beat on medium until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add the eggs, one at a time, and beat on medium until fully incorporated. Reduce the speed to low and add the flour and cocoa powder mixtures in batches, beginning and ending with the flour mixture. (The batter may look curdled.) Pour the batter into the prepared pan, smoothing the top, and bake the cake until a wooden toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean and the cake begins to pull away from the sides of the pan, 35 to 40 minutes. Let the cake cool in the pan on a rack for 10 minutes, then invert the cake onto the rack, remove the wax or parchment paper, and let it cool completely. DO AHEAD: The unfrosted cake, can be cooled, wrapped securely in plastic wrap, and stored at room temperature up to 24 hours, before assembling and serving.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the cream cheese and butter and beat until creamy and smooth, 3 to 5 minutes. Beat in the vanilla extract. With the mixer on low, add the sifted confectioners' sugar in three batches, mixing until fully incorporated. Increase the speed to medium-high and beat until the frosting is smooth. Chill the frosting in the refrigerator for 30 minutes before assembling the cake.
Frost the top and sides of the cake with 2 1/2 cups of the frosting. Transfer the remaining frosting to a pastry bag fitted with the star tip.
Using a toothpick or small knife, outline a 4 1/2-inch-long by 3 1/2-inch-wide rectangle in the top left corner of the cake. This area will be reserved for blueberries.
Starting with the longer side of the cake that is closest to you, pipe a line of frosting along the top edge of the cake then arrange two horizontal rows of raspberries directly above the line of frosting. Pipe a second line of frosting above the raspberries and arrange two more horizontal rows of raspberries directly above the frosting. Repeat this process two more times, making sure to exclude the top left corner that is reserved for the blueberries. Arrange the blueberries in horizontal rows in the top left corner of the cake.
Slice and serve the cake immediately or store it, covered securely in plastic wrap, in the refrigerator until ready to serve.

Chinese Butter Cookies 
12 tablespoons (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup confectioners' sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups self-rising flour
Mixer with paddle attachment
Cookie press

1. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
2. In a standing electric mixer, cream the butter until smooth. Add the confectioners' sugar and cream until fluffy. Add the egg and vanilla extract. Slowly sift in the self-rising flour and beat until a smooth dough forms.
3. Add the dough to a cookie press and attach a star or flower-shape disk. Press the cookies onto the lined baking sheet, leaving 1 inch of space around each cookie.
4. Bake for 15 minutes, or until lightly golden on top. Transfer to a wire rack to cool completely before storing. The cookies can be stored at room temperature in an airtight container for 3 to 4 days.

Carrot Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting 
Cooking spray
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
4 large egg whites
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1/2 cup unsweetened applesauce
1/2 cup fat-free milk
1 tablespoon canola or corn oil
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups whole-wheat flour
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1 1/2 cups grated carrots
1 8-ounce can crushed pineapple in its own juice, undrained
1/2 cup raisins
2 cups unsifted confectioners' sugar
2 ounces low-fat brick- type cream cheese, softened (don't use fat free)
2 teaspoons fat-free milk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup finely chopped pecans or walnuts (dry-roasted preferred)

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly spray a 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan with cooking spray. Sprinkle 2 tablespoons flour in the pan, shaking so the flour adheres to the sides and bottom. Shake out any excess flour.
2. In a medium mixing bowl, using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat the egg whites, sugars, applesauce, 1/2 cup milk, the oil, and 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla for 1 minute, or until combined.
3. In a medium bowl, stir together the whole-wheat flour, remaining 1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour, cinnamon, baking powder, and allspice. Gradually add the flour mixture to the egg white mixture while beating on medium speed for about 1 minute, or until blended.
4. Stir in the carrots, pineapple with liquid, and raisins. Pour into the pan, lightly smoothing the top.
5. Bake for 35 to 40 minutes, or until a wooden toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Transfer to a cooling rack and let cool for at least 1 1/2 hours before frosting.
6. In a medium mixing bowl, using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat together the frosting ingredients except the pecans for 1 minute, or until smooth. Spread on the cooled cake. Sprinkle with the pecans. Serve the same day for peak flavor and texture.
7. Cover any leftovers and refrigerate for up to three days.

Strawberry Pazzo Cake with Herbed Crème Fraîche 
1 3/4 cups Crème Fraîche
1 tablespoon minced fresh rosemary leaves (or minced fresh basil leaves)
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature, plus more to grease the pan
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon coarse sea salt, preferably gray salt
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup packed dark brown sugar
1 egg
1/2 cup whole milk
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 pound fresh strawberries, hulled and halved
4 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon granulated sugar
A few grinds of fresh black pepper
Confectioners' sugar for dusting, optional
1 cup Roasted Strawberries with syrup , optional

For the Crème Fraîche: Stir together the crème fraîche and the herbs. Refrigerate and let sit for 30 minutes or overnight.
For the Cake: Butter a 9-inch cast-iron skillet or 8-by-8-inch enameled cast-iron baking pan (if cooking in the grill) or standard 8-by-8-inch baking pan (if baking in your oven). (Don't put a standard baking pan inside your grill or over a fire.) Ignite the coals, turn a gas grill to high, or preheat an oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Set aside. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment or with an electric mixer, cream the butter and sugars on medium speed until the mixture looks creamy, about 3 minutes. Slowly add the egg, milk, and vanilla and mix just until combined. Gradually add the flour mixture, mixing just until smooth with a creamy texture.
Pour the batter into the buttered pan. Arrange the strawberry halves, cut-side down, on top of the cake batter. Don't overlap the berries; use just enough strawberries for one layer and set aside the rest to use as garnish.
TO BAKE IN A GRILL: When the grill reaches 350 degrees F, slide in the cake, resting the pan on the grill rack, close the grill's lid and let it bake for at least 20 minutes with the grill lid closed. Test the cake: It's done when a skewer inserted into the center (but not in a strawberry) comes out clean and the cake is golden brown on top.
TO BAKE IN AN OVEN: Bake for 10 minutes and then decrease the heat to 325 degrees F and bake for an additional 45 to 50 minutes. The cake is done when a skewer inserted into the center (but not in a strawberry) comes out clean and the cake is golden brown on top.
For the Glaze: While the cake is baking, in a small pan combine the balsamic vinegar, sugar, and black pepper. Bring to a boil over high heat and remove from the heat right away. Set it aside until the cake has baked. It should be the consistency of maple syrup; if it thickens too much before the cake comes out of the oven, stir in a few more spoonfuls of vinegar. As soon as the cake comes off the heat, drizzle the top with about three-fourths of the balsamic glaze.
When the cake has cooled, cut it into wedges if baked in a skillet; if baked in a standard baking pan, cut it into squares. To garnish simply, top with a light dusting of confectioners' sugar. To dress up the cake, spoon several tablespoons of the Roasted Strawberries onto one side of each plate; on the other side of the plate drizzle a small pool of the balsamic glaze, and smear it lightly with the back of a spoon. Drizzle more balsamic glaze over the cake if you like. Set a cake slice on top the strawberry syrup, and top the cake with a spoonful of Herbed Crème Fraîche. Spoon any remaining crème fraîche into a bowl and set on a platter with leftover halved strawberries to pass so guests can add extra if they like.

Caramel Cake 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, softened, plus more for the pans
2 1/2 cups sifted all-purpose flour, plus more for the pans
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 teaspoons salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups sugar
3 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
3/4 cup whole milk
1 1/2 cups whole milk
4 cups sugar
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) butter
2 teaspoons kosher salt, plus more to taste
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
Hot water

1 Make the cake: Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease and flour two round 9 by 2-inch cake pans. Pour about a tablespoon of flour into each of the pans and roll it around, tapping as you go, until the sides and bottom are covered completely with a thin layer of flour. Tip the pans, and tap out excess flour.
2 In a large mixing bowl, mix thoroughly with a whisk the flour, baking powder, salt, and baking soda.
3 In a separate large bowl, beat the butter with an electric mixer until creamy, about 30 seconds. Add the sugar in 1/2-cup measures, beating about 15 seconds after each addition and scraping down the sides of the bowl if necessary, until the mixture has lightened in color and become fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add the eggs and egg yolks, one at a time, and the vanilla, beating for 15 seconds after each addition.
4 Add the flour mixture to the butter mixture in thirds, alternating with additions of the milk. To avoid overmixing the batter, mix gently with a wooden spoon or rubber spatula after each addition, until the ingredient is just incorporated. Beat until all the ingredients have been incorporated, and then just a few strokes beyond. Divide the batter between the cake pans and spread the tops evenly.
5 Bake until a cake tester or toothpick emerges clean, about 30 minutes. Remove from the oven and let the cakes cool in their pans on a rack for 10 minutes, then slide a thin paring knife around the edge of the pans, and invert the cakes. Turn each cake again so its rounded top is facing up, and cool the cakes completely on the rack.
6 Make the icing: Pour the milk and 3 cups of the sugar into a large, deep, heavy-bottomed pot over medium-high heat, mixing with a whisk. Add the butter and the salt, whisking occasionally until the butter melts. When mixture just simmers, cut the heat, but keep over the warm burner.
7 Pour the remaining 1 cup sugar into a saucepan. Cook the sugar over medium-high heat until it becomes a syrup, stirring every so often with a wooden spoon as it begins to brown, until the sugar syrup is evenly amber colored, 5 to 8 minutes. Pour the syrup into the warm milk mixture, being very careful, as the caramel will bubble and sputter when it hits the hot milk. Turn the heat beneath the pot to high and, whisking gently until all the syrup has completely dissolved into the roiling milk mixture, continue to cook to the soft-ball stage, about 238 degrees F; this may take 8 to 12 minutes.
8 Cut the heat beneath the caramel and gently whisk in the vanilla and the baking soda. Dip a spoon into the caramel, and let it cool to taste it. Season the caramel to taste with salt, and pour it into the bowl of a standing mixer (or use an electric hand-mixer and a large bowl). Beat on low speed as it cools, 15 to 20 minutes depending on the temperature of your kitchen, until the icing is creamy and thick (between 100 degrees F and 105 degrees F). Remove the bowl from the mixer stand and let cool 5 to 10 minutes more, until the icing is between 95 degrees F and 98 degrees F—it should fall off your spatula in a ribbon that remains discernible on the surface of the icing for 10 seconds.
9 Set the first cake layer on a rack set over a sheet plan lined with waxed paper. Have an electric hand-mixer and the hot water nearby to blend a teaspoon or two into the icing if it becomes too thick to spread. Pour enough of the icing over the cake to cover the top in a layer about 1/4 inch thick (if it drips over the edge in places, that's fine; this is an early test of whether it's going to set in place or not). Top the first cake with the second cake layer and pour the rest of the icing in stages over the top of the cake, letting it run down the sides and using an icing spatula to guide the icing around the cake as it drips, until the entire cake is covered, for a traditional, classic look. (If you prefer the dramatic look of cake layers peeking out from behind a curtain of icing drips, by all means choose that route!) If you need to reuse any icing that overflows into the pan, simply move the cake on its rack temporarily, scrape up the icing from the waxed paper with a spatula and return it to the bowl, replace the rack over the pan, and continue to ice the cake.
10 Once the icing has set, using two spatulas carefully transfer the cake from the rack to a cake stand and let stand at room temperature beneath a cake dome until ready to serve. Only refrigerate if you plan to store the cake for more than 2 days.

Linda's Lemon Drizzle Cake 
flour for dusting the pan
1 stick butter, softened, plus more for greasing the pan
3/4 cup superfine sugar
2 large, free-range eggs, beaten
finely grated zest and juice of 3 lemons
1 1/2 cups all-purpose or light spelt flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 cup milk
1/2 cup confectioner's sugar, sifted

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour a 9-inch non-stick loaf pan.
In a medium mixing bowl, cream the butter and sugar together with a wooden spoon (or use an electric mixer). Gradually beat in the eggs and mix until light and fluffy. Stir in the lemon zest, flour, and baking powder, and mix well. Add 2 tablespoons of the lemon juice and mix well again. Then beat in the milk.
Pour the cake batter evenly into the prepared loaf pan and bake for 45 minutes.
In the meantime, mix the remaining lemon juice and the confectioner's sugar together in a small bowl to make a glaze.
When it's ready, take the cake out of the oven and cool in the pan for 5 minutes. Then turn it out onto a plate. Pierce the top of the cake all over with a thin skewer. Spoon the lemon glaze carefully and evenly over the cake until all of it is absorbed. Ready to eat.

Pistachio Shortbread 
1 cup unsalted, shelled raw pistachios (about 4 1/2 ounces)
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2 inch pieces
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoons vanilla extract

Pulse pistachios in a food processor until finely ground but not a paste, about 30 seconds. Add flour, sugar, butter, salt, and vanilla; pulse until mixture is the consistency of cornmeal. With machine running, drizzle in 2 tablespoons ice water (a crumbly dough should form; do not overprocess).
Transfer dough to a sheet of parchment paper and pat into a rectangle. Top with another sheet of parchment and roll out to a 12x8 inch rectangle. Transfer dough (in parchment paper) to a baking sheet and chill until firm, about 1 hour.
Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Remove top sheet of parchment paper from dough and discard. Cut dough lengthwise into 8 equal strips, then each strip crosswise into quarters, forming 32 rectangles. Place rectangles on 2 parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart.
Bake shortbread until golden brown, rotating sheets halfway through, 18-20 minutes. Transfer to wire racks; let cool.
DO AHEAD: Shortbread can be made 5 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Easy Passover Cakes 
9 tablespoons Passover margarine or butter
2/3 cup superfine sugar
1 tablespoon vanilla sugar
4 organic free-range eggs
2/3 cup cake meal
2/3 cup potato flour
1 1/2 teaspoons Passover baking powder
a pinch of salt
3 tablespoons milk or water
6-8 tablespoons jam of your choice
superfine sugar, for dusting

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F and line a 7-inch round cake pan with parchment paper.
In a mixing bowl, cream the margarine or butter with the sugars until light and fluffy. Separate the eggs and beat in the yolks only. Sift in the cake meal, potato flour, and baking powder, and fold in carefully. In a separate bowl, whisk the egg whites with a pinch of salt until soft peaks form. Add a spoonful of the egg white to the cake batter and mix in thoroughly. Now fold in the rest of the eggs whites, taking care not to knock out any air. Spoon the mixture into your prepared pan and bake for 35-40 minutes until risen and golden.
After the cake has cooled, slice in half horizontally and spread the bottom half with jam. Replace the top half and sprinkle superfine sugar over the top.

Tozzetti 
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour plus more for work surface
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
1 1/4 cups blanched almonds

Preheat oven to 325 degrees . Whisk baking powder, salt, and 1 3/4 cups flour in a medium bowl; set aside. Using an electric mixer on medium-high, beat sugar and butter in a medium bowl until creamy, about 2 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend between additions and occasionally scraping sides of bowl, until combined. Reduce speed to low, add dry ingredients, and mix just to blend. Fold in almonds.
Transfer dough to a lightly floured work surface and knead just to bring together, about 2 times. Form into a log about 14 inch long, 2 inch wide, and 1 inch thick. Place log on a parchment-lined baking sheet.
Bake until puffed, cracked in spots, and starting to brown, 25-30 minutes. Transfer baking sheet to a wire rack and let log cool.
Using a serrated knife, slice log diagonally 1/2 inch thick. Arrange slices on same sheet; bake until golden brown, 15-20 minutes. Turn and bake until other side is golden brown, 5-10 minutes longer. Transfer baking sheet to a wire rack. Let tozzetti cool.
DO AHEAD: Tozzetti can be made 1 week ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Tiramisu Yule Log 
1/2 cup sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring), plus additional for dusting pan
5 large eggs, separated, left at room temperature for 30 minutes
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons granulated sugar, divided
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
1/2 cup espresso or very strong black coffee
2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon Cognac or brandy
8 ounces mascarpone cheese
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 tablespoon Cognac or brandy
1/2 cup chilled heavy cream
12 ounces 60% bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped
3/4 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
Meringue mushrooms
Unsweetened cocoa for dusting
Confectioners' sugar for dusting
A 15- by 10- by 1-inch rimmed sheet pan (aka jelly-roll pan; small offset spatula (optional, but really helpful); long rectangular or oval platter or wooden serving board

Heat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter pan and line bottom and sides with 1 sheet of parchment paper. Butter paper and dust with additional flour, knocking out excess.
Beat together yolks, vanilla, and 1/2 cup sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until thick and pale and mixture forms a ribbon that takes 2 seconds to dissolve when beaters are lifted, 5 to 8 minutes in a stand mixer or 8 to 12 minutes with a handheld. Sift half of flour over yolks and fold it in gently but thoroughly, then sift and fold in remaining flour.
Beat whites with salt and cream of tartar in a large metal bowl with cleaned beaters at medium speed until they just hold soft peaks. Beat in remaining 2 tablespoons sugar, 1/2 tablespoon at a time, and continue to beat until whites just hold stiff peaks.
Fold 1/4 of whites into yolk mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Stir 1/2 cup batter into melted butter in a small bowl until combined, then fold butter mixture into batter gently but thoroughly. Spread batter evenly in sheet pan and rap once on counter to help eliminate air bubbles.
Bake until top of cake springs back when gently pressed with finger, 7 to 10 minutes.
Sift top of hot cake evenly with confectioners' sugar and cover cake with a clean kitchen towel (not terry cloth) followed by a baking sheet. Holding sheet and cake pan together with oven mitts, flip cake onto cloth on baking sheet. Carefully peel off and discard parchment paper.
With a long side nearest you and using towel as an aid, roll up cake in towel, jelly-roll style, keeping it wrapped in towel. Cool cake completely, seam-side down in towel, on a rack.
Bring espresso and sugar to a boil in a small saucepan, stirring until sugar dissolves, then boil until reduced to a scant 1/4 cup. Remove pan from heat and stir in Cognac, then cool to room temperature.
Slowly mix mascarpone, sugar, cinnamon, and Cognac in a large bowl with an electric mixer until combined. If mixture is very loose after adding sugar, beat mixture briefly to thicken slightly (see Cooks' notes).
Beat heavy cream in another bowl with same beaters at medium speed until it just holds stiff peaks. Fold whipped cream into mascarpone mixture.
Put chopped chocolate in a large bowl. Heat cream in a small saucepan over medium heat until it just comes to a boil, then pour over chocolate and let stand 3 minutes. Stir slowly with a whisk until smooth. If bits of chocolate remain unmelted, set bowl over a pan of barely simmering water and heat, stirring gently, until completely smooth, and remove from pan. Stir in corn syrup. Chill, stirring a couple of times, until it thickens to an easily spreadable consistency, about 15 to 20 minutes.
Gently unroll cooled cake on a baking sheet, keeping it on towel, then arrange baking sheet so that long side of cake that was inside roll is nearest to you. Brush all of cooled espresso syrup all over surface of cake. Spread filling with offset spatula evenly over cake, leaving a 1/2-inch border all around. Starting from long side nearest you, roll up cake without towel, leaving it seam-side down on baking sheet. Gently brush off any excess confectioners' sugar.
Cut a 1 1/2-inch-long diagonal slice from each end of roll and reserve. Transfer cake, using 2 metal slotted spatulas as aids, seam-side down on platter. Using ganache as  inchglue, inch attach end pieces, diagonal sides down, on top and side of log to resemble branches.
Spread ganache all over roll and branches with offset spatula, making it resemble tree bark (see Cooks' notes).
Arrange a few meringue mushrooms, if using, around Yule log, and very lightly sift a little cocoa over log and mushrooms first, followed by a little confectioners' sugar to resemble a light dusting of snow.

Porter Cake 
3 1/2 cups (450g) all-purpose (plain) flour
1 teaspoon grated or ground nutmeg
1 teaspoon pumpkin pie spice (mixed spice)
1 teaspoon baking powder
Pinch of salt
1 cup (225g) butter
1 cup packed (225g) light brown sugar
1 pound (450g) golden raisins (sultanas) or raisins or a mixture of both
3 ounces (75g) chopped candied peel, store-bought or homemade
2 eggs
1 (12-ounce/330ml) bottle porter or stout

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C/Gas mark 4). Line the sides and bottom of an 8-inch (20 cm) high-sided round cake pan (the sides should be about 2 3/4 inches/7 cm high) with waxed (greaseproof) paper.
Sift the flour, nutmeg, spice, baking powder, and salt into a bowl. Rub in the butter, then stir in the brown sugar, raisins, and candied peel.
Whisk the eggs in another bowl and add the porter. Pour into the dry ingredients and mix well. Pour into the prepared pan.
Bake for about 2 hours. If the cake starts to brown too quickly on top, cover it with aluminum foil or waxed (greaseproof) paper after about 1 hour. The cake is done when a skewer inserted into the center comes out clean. Allow the cake to sit in the pan for about 20 minutes before turning it out and cooling it on a wire rack.

Coconut Macaroon Sandwiches with Lime Curd 
1 (14-ounce) bag (5 1/3 cups) sweetened flaked coconut
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon pure almond extract
1 tablespoon lime zest
3/4 cup fresh lime juice (from about 6 limes)
3/4 cup sugar
2 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
4 large egg yolks
1 drop green food coloring, if desired
Edible gold or silver glitter or clear sanding sugar (optional)
Small offset spatula (optional, but very helpful); edible gold or silver glitter; a heavy-duty resealable plastic bag (not pleated)

Heat oven to 325 degrees F with racks in upper and lower third. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Stir together coconut, sugar, flour, and salt until combined well, then add egg whites and almond extract and stir until combined well.
Pack dough in a teaspoon measure, preferably with offset spatula, scraping it level, then use spatula to remove dough from teaspoon in a single mound. Arrange mounds, rounded side up, 1 inch apart, on baking sheets.
Bake until just springy to the touch and bottoms are pale golden, 8 to 12 minutes, switching position of sheets halfway through baking.
Remove cookies from oven and sprinkle while still hot with edible glitter, if using. Cool cookies on baking sheet 1 minute, and transfer to racks to cool completely.
Whisk together lime zest and juice, sugar, cornstarch, and salt in a 2-quart heavy saucepan until cornstarch is dissolved, then whisk in butter. Bring to a simmer over moderately high heat, whisking constantly, then reduce heat and continue to simmer briskly, whisking constantly, 1 minute. Remove pan from heat.
Lightly beat yolks in a small bowl, then slowly add 1/4 cup lime mixture, whisking. Add yolk mixture to remaining lemon mixture, whisking, then cook over low heat, whisking constantly, until curd is thick enough to hold marks of whisk, 1 to 2 minutes. Transfer to a bowl, then cover surface with wax paper and chill until cold, about 1 hour.
Transfer lime curd to plastic bag and press out excess air. Snip a 1/8-inch opening in bottom corner of bag, then twist bag firmly just above curd.
Put 1 cookie, flat side up, on work surface and pipe about 1/2 teaspoon lime curd onto cookie, then top with another cookie, flat side down, to form a sandwich. Make more sandwiches in same manner.

Salted Brown Butter Cookies 
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 cup cornstarch
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1 large egg
3/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 (1-pound) box confectioners' sugar
4 teaspoons powdered egg whites (not reconstituted), such as Just Whites, or meringue powder (see Cooks' notes)
1/3 cup water
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla
Decorative sugars and or salts, if desired
Wax paper and parchment paper; rolling pin rings (optional, but really helpful; see Cooks' notes:); 3- to 4-inch holiday cookie cutters; several small, heavy-duty sealable plastic bags (not pleated), if icing cookies

Melt butter in a 1- to 2-quart heavy saucepan over medium-low heat, then cook over low heat, swirling pan occasionally, until butter has a nutty aroma and is a rich brown color, and bottom of pan is speckled with browned bits of the milk solids, 8 to 10 minutes. Transfer to a bowl, including browned milk solids on bottom, and chill until almost firm, about 30 minutes.
Whisk together flour and cornstarch in a bowl. Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, then beat in egg, salt, and vanilla. Add flour mixture and mix on low speed until just combined well.
Form dough into 2 balls and flatten each into a 6-inch disk. Chill disks, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firmer, but not hard, 15 to 30 minutes.
Heat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle position. Line a large baking sheet with parchment paper.
Roll out 1 disk of dough (keep remaining dough chilled) between 2 large sheets of wax paper 1/8 inch thick (this is when the rolling pin rings are really helpful). Freeze or chill dough on a baking sheet or tray until firm, 5 to 15 minutes, then cut out as many cookies as possible from dough. Transfer cookies to lined baking sheet, arranging cookies about 1 inch apart. If the cookies become too warm to transfer, freeze or chill until firm (see Cooks' notes).
Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until edges are golden, 8 to 10 minutes, then transfer to racks to cool completely.
Meanwhile, gather scraps of dough and repeat cookie process above. Parchment can be reused, but make sure baking sheet cools between batches. Make more cookies with remaining dough.
Beat together all ingredients in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until just combined, about 1 minute.
Increase speed to high and continue to beat until icing holds stiff peaks, about 3 minutes in a stand mixer or 10 minutes with a handheld. If not using icing immediately, cover surface with a dampened paper towel, then cover bowl with plastic wrap.
Transfer icing to a heavy-duty resealable bag and press out excess air. Snip a 1/8-inch opening in bottom corner of bag, then twist bag firmly just above icing and decoratively pipe icing onto cookies. If desired, sprinkle with sanding sugars or colorful sea salts while icing is still wet. (For tinted icing, see Cooks' notes.)
Let icing dry completely (about 1 hour) before storing cookies.

Salty Chocolate Chunk Cookies 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup powdered sugar
2 large egg yolks
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
8 ounces semisweet or bittersweet chocolate (do not exceed 72% cacao), coarsely chopped
Maldon or other flaky sea salt

Place racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Whisk flour, baking powder, kosher salt, and baking soda in a medium bowl; set aside.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat butter, brown sugar, sugar, and powdered sugar until light and fluffy, 3-4 minutes. Add egg yolks, egg, and vanilla. Beat, occasionally scraping down the sides of the bowl, until mixture is pale and fluffy, 4-5 minutes. Reduce mixer speed to low; slowly add dry ingredients, mixing just to blend. Using a spatula, fold in chocolate.
Spoon rounded tablespoonfuls of cookie dough onto 2 parchment paper-lined baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Sprinkle cookies with sea salt.
Bake cookies, rotating sheets halfway through, until just golden brown around the edges, 10-12 minutes (the cookies will firm up as they cool). Let cool slightly on baking sheets, then transfer to wire racks; let cool completely. DO AHEAD: Cookies can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Stage Planks 
3-3 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon ground ginger
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup buttermilk
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup molasses
1/4 cup sugar
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line 2 cookie sheets with parchment paper and set aside. In a medium bowl, sift together 3 cups flour, ginger, cinnamon, cloves, baking soda, and salt. Set aside. In bowl of a standing mixer, add molasses, sugar, and butter. Mix on medium-high speed until color turns lighter, about 2 minutes. On low mixer speed, alternate flour and buttermilk with butter mixture. Raise speed to medium and mix 30 seconds. Dough should be stiff enough to roll out. If not, mix in up to 1/2 cup more flour to reach proper consistency.
On a hard floured surface, roll dough to a 10 inch x 16 inch rectangle. Slice down the middle horizontally, then vertically at 2-inch intervals to make 16 cookies. Place individual pieces at least 1 inch apart on prepared cookie sheets. Bake until tops are firm, about 15 minutes. Remove from oven and cool completely in pans.

Pecan Sandies for My Mom 
1 3/4 cups + 1 1/2 teaspoons all-purpose flour (250 grams)
3/4 cup coarsely chopped pecans (80 grams)
6 ounces (170 grams) unsalted butter, at room temperature
3/4 cup + 1 3/4 teaspoons powdered sugar (90 grams)
Additional powdered sugar for dusting (optional)

Position the racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (convection) or 350 degrees F (standard). Line two sheet pans with Silpats or parchment paper.
Toss the flour and pecans together in a medium bowl.
Place the butter in the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and mix on medium-low speed until smooth. Add the 90 grams/3/4 cup plus 1 3/4 teaspoons powdered sugar and mix for about 2 minutes, until fluffy. Scrape down the sides and bottom of the bowl. Add the flour mixture and mix on low speed for about 30 seconds, until just combined. Scrape the bottom of the bowl to incorporate any dry ingredients that have settled there.
Divide the dough into 30-gram/1 1/2-tablespoon portions, roll into balls, and arrange on the sheet pans, leaving about 1 1/2 inches between them. Press the cookies into 2-inch disks.
Bake until pale golden brown, 15 to 18 minutes if using a convection oven, 22 to 25 minutes if using a standard oven, reversing the positions of the pans halfway through. (Sandies baked in a convection oven will not spread as much as those baked in a standard oven and will have a more even color.)
Set the pans on a cooling rack and cool for 5 to 10 minutes. Using a metal spatula, transfer the cookies to the rack to cool completely.
If desired, dust with powdered sugar.
The cookies can be stored in a covered container for up to 3 days.

Tuckers 
2 1/2 cups unsweetened shredded coconut
4 large egg whites
2/3 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon food-grade pure rose extract (not rose water); optional
Red liquid food coloring
White sanding sugar
Ingredient info: Unsweetened shredded coconut is sold at natural foods stores. Rose extract is available at surlatable.com. Look for sanding sugar at specialty foods stores.

Cook first 3 ingredients in a medium saucepan over medium-low heat, stirring occasionally, until mixture is hot, dry to the touch, and starts pulling away from sides of pan, about 10 minutes.
Scrape dough into a heatproof bowl. Stir in vanilla and rose extract, if using. Add 1 drop of food coloring; stir well. Press plastic wrap on top of dough. Chill for at least 5 hours or overnight.
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or a silicone baking mat and stack it on top of a second sheet (this keeps cookie bottoms from browning too quickly).
Roll 1 tablespoon of dough into a ball. With your fingers, pinch the ball to form a 3-sided pyramid that ends in a point. Dip into white sanding sugar.
Bake cookies until lightly golden on top and slightly firm to the touch, 25-30 minutes. Let cool on sheet on a wire rack. DO AHEAD: Tuckers can be made 3 days ahead. Store cookies airtight at room temperature.

Speculoos Buttons 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons mild-flavored (light) molasses
1 large egg, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 large egg white
Sanding or other decorative sugar
2 cups powdered sugar, sifted
Sprinkles, colored sanding sugar, or dragées (optional)

Whisk first 6 ingredients in a medium bowl; set aside. Using an electric mixer at medium speed, beat butter in a medium bowl until smooth, about 2 minutes. Add both sugars and molasses; continue to beat until mixture is smooth and creamy, about 3 minutes. Beat in egg and vanilla; mix for 2 minutes. Reduce speed to low; add dry ingredients and mix to blend well.
Scrape dough from bowl and divide into thirds. Using your palms, roll each piece of dough into an 8 inch log. Wrap logs tightly in plastic or parchment paper and freeze for at least 3 hours. (For neater edges, remove logs from freezer after 1 hour and roll on counter.) DO AHEAD: Dough can be made up to 2 months ahead. Keep frozen.
Arrange racks in top and bottom thirds of oven; preheat to 375 degrees F. Line 3 baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats.
Whisk egg white in a small bowl to loosen; lightly brush all over 1 log. Sprinkle with (or roll in) sanding sugar. Using a long, slender knife, slice off a sliver of dough from each end of log to make ends flat. Cut log into 1/4 inch-thick rounds. Transfer to 1 baking sheet, spacing 1/2 inch apart; place in freezer while you cut the next log. (The cookies hold their shape better if you bake when dough is cold.) Repeat with remaining dough.
Bake 2 sheets of cookies, rotating the sheets from top to bottom and front to back after 6 minutes, until tops are golden brown and centers are almost firm, 11-13 minutes. Transfer cookies to wire racks and let cool. Repeat with third sheet of cookies. DO AHEAD: Cookies can be baked 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
Mix powdered sugar and 7 teaspoons cold water in a large mixing bowl (glaze will be very thick). Spoon about 1/2 teaspoon glaze onto each button (alternatively, fill a resealable plastic bag with glaze and cut a small hole in 1 corner; pipe glaze in an even circle around edges of cookies, then fill). Decorate with sprinkles, colored sugar, or dragées, if desired. Let stand on rack at room temperature for at least 30 minutes for glaze to set. DO AHEAD: Cookies can be made 5 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Merveilles 
1 cup all-purpose flour plus more for dusting
1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
3 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon finely grated orange zest
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, room temperature
1 large egg, room temperature, beaten to blend
2 tablespoons brandy or dark rum
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Vegetable, grapeseed, or sunflower oil (for frying)
Powdered sugar or cinnamon sugar (for dusting)
A deep-fry thermometer

Whisk 1 cup flour, baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl; set aside. Blend sugar and zest in a medium bowl with your fingertips until sugar is fragrant. Add butter; use a spatula to blend. Add egg, brandy, and vanilla; stir to blend. Add dry ingredients; stir until a moist dough forms. Transfer to a sheet of plastic; wrap tightly and chill for at least 2 hours and preferably overnight.
Line a baking sheet with plastic wrap. Cut dough in half. Generously flour work surface (the dough is sticky). Working with 1 piece of dough at a time (chill remaining dough), dust top with more flour and roll out, turning occasionally to make sure it's not sticking; roll out dough as thinly as possible, turning and dusting with flour as needed.
Working with a zigzag pastry or ravioli cutter, a plain pizza wheel, or a long knife, cut dough into long strips, squares, diamonds, or shape of your choice. Place strips on prepared baking sheet; cover with another piece of plastic wrap. Repeat with remaining dough. Chill for at least 1 hour.
Pour oil into a deep saucepan to a depth of 4 inch. Attach deep-fry thermometer to side of pan; heat oil to 350 degrees F. Line a rimmed baking sheet with several layers of paper towels.
Drop 4-6 pieces of dough into pan and fry until golden on both sides, 2-3 minutes. Using a slotted spoon or tongs and allowing excess oil to drip back into pan, transfer cookies to prepared sheet to drain. Pat tops with more paper towels to blot oil. While cookies are still hot, dust both sides with powdered or cinnamon sugar. Repeat with remaining dough, returning oil to 350 degrees F between batches.
Just before serving, dust Merveilles with more sugar.

Chocolate-Covered Pumpkin Cheesecake Pops 
1 (8-ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1/2 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 cup canned pure pumpkin (not pumpkin pie filling)
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon pumpkin pie spice
1 pound bittersweet chocolate (60% cacao), chopped
2 tablespoons graham cracker crumbs
9-inch glass pie plate; 1 1/2-inch-diameter ice cream scoop, holding about 1 tablespoon; 24 (6- to 8-inch) lollipop sticks (see Cooks' notes)

Heat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Oil pie plate.
Beat cream cheese and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until creamy and smooth, then beat in egg until combined. Add pumpkin, vanilla, and pumpkin pie spice and mix on low speed until smooth.
Pour batter into pie plate and bake until edges are set and center is still a little wobbly, 25 to 30 minutes. Transfer to a rack to let cool completely. (Cheesecake will set completely as it cools.)
Cover cheesecake with a round of wax paper or parchment then wrap in plastic and chill until cold, at least 3 hours.
Scoop out pumpkin cheesecake, packing cheesecake in ice cream scoop each time and leveling it off, then releasing it, flat side down, onto 2 small, wax paper-lined rimmed baking sheets. Freeze until frozen solid, at least 1 hour.
Melt half of chocolate in a small, deep bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water, then remove bowl from pan.
Working with one pan of cheesecake balls at a time (and keeping the other pan frozen), rest a cheesecake scoop on a fork and lower it into chocolate, then spoon chocolate over it to coat it completely. Let excess chocolate drip off, then scrape bottom of fork against edge of bowl and return coated ball, flat-side down, to wax paper-lined pan. Sprinkle with graham cracker crumbs and push a lollipop stick 3/4 inch through ball. Repeat with remaining balls on first baking sheet. (If cheesecake begins to soften, return to freezer to harden.) Refrigerate finished pops.
Melt remaining chocolate in another small deep bowl in same manner and coat remaining cheesecake balls.
Keep pops refrigerated or frozen until serving.

Spritz Cookies 
2 1/4 cups/315 g Jeanne's Gluten-Free All-Purpose Flour
1/4 tsp salt
1 cup/225 g unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/2 cup/100 g granulated sugar
1 extra-large egg, plus egg yolk, at room temperature
3/4 tsp pure vanilla extract
Colored sugar for sprinkling (optional)
1 cup/170 g semisweet chocolate chips (optional)

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F/180 degrees C/gas mark 4. Have ready two ungreased cookie sheets.
In a small bowl, mix together the flour and salt.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the butter on medium speed until light, about 1 minute. Add the granulated sugar and beat for 1 minute. Add the whole egg and egg yolk and beat for 1 minute. Add the vanilla and beat until combined. Reduce the speed to low, add the flour mixture, and beat until combined.
Here comes the fun part. Prepare your cookie press by placing the plunger on the tube part and turn to lock. Lift the plunger until it's all the way at the top. Then fill the tube with the dough from the bottom opening. Fit the disk of your choice into the bottom ring and screw on tightly. Now press the gun part (it will click each time you press the handle) until you see dough just pushing against the disk at the bottom.
Now you're ready to press out dough. Place the end of the press firmly and evenly against a cookie sheet and press once on the gun. Lift the press. If the dough was adequately pressed against the disk, you should have a nice cookie shape on the sheet. If dough came out but did not stick, or if the shape is wonky, pick up the dough and put it back into the bowl (I told you this would be easy). Press out enough cookies to cover the cookie sheets, spacing them about 1 1/2 in/4 cm apart. Lightly sprinkle with colored sugar (if using). I usually sprinkle some with colored sugar and leave some plain.
Bake until the cookies are light brown on the bottoms, 13 to 15 minutes. Remove to wire racks to cool completely. Repeat the process with the remaining dough, allowing the cookie sheets to cool completely. If the dough starts to seem too squishy to make defined shapes, refrigerate it for a few minutes.
If you like melt the chocolate chips in a small saucepan over extremely low heat until just barely melted. Watch carefully to prevent burning. Remove from the heat and whisk until smooth. Line a cookie sheet with waxed paper. With a butter knife, spread a bit of melted chocolate on the bottoms of some of the cookies and press the cookies, chocolate-side down, onto the waxed paper. For sandwich cookies, spread melted chocolate on the bottom of a cookie and press the bottom of another cookie of the same shape onto the chocolate. Or drizzle melted chocolate on top of the shapes. Be creative! Let the cookies sit for about 1 hour to let the chocolate set.
Store in an airtight container, with waxed paper between the layers, at room temperature for up to 7 days.

Shortbread 
1/2 cup (1 stick) butter, softened
3/4 cup flour
1/4 cup cornstarch
1/4 cup sugar
Pinch salt
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Green sanding or decorating sugar

1 Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F and lightly grease an 8-inch round cake tin.
2 Put the butter in a medium bowl and use a hand mixer to beat until smooth. Add the remaining ingredients and mix to combine. Press into the bottom of the prepared pan, smoothing the surface with your fingertips, and chill for 10 minutes in the refrigerator.
3 Sprinkle generously with the green sugar and bake for 15 minutes, until just turning golden brown. While still warm, cut into 16 wedges with the tip of a paring knife. Let cool completely before removing from pan.

Pistachio Cranberry Oatmeal Icebox Cookies 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup packed light brown sugar
2/3 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3 cups old-fashioned rolled oats
1 cup roasted and salted shelled pistachios (about 5 ounces)
1 cup dried cranberries (about 4 ounces)
4 ounces bittersweet or white chocolate, melted (see Cooks' notes)
A sharp serrated knife; a heavy-duty sealable plastic bag (not pleated)

Beat together butter and sugars in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until light and fluffy, then beat in baking powder and soda, spices, and salt until well combined. Add eggs and vanilla and beat well.
Add flour and mix on low speed until just combined well. Stir in oats, pistachios, and cranberries.
Divide dough in quarters. Shape each quarter on a large sheet of wax paper, using paper as an aid, into a 9-inch-long log, and wrap up tightly in paper first, then in plastic wrap, twisting ends (like a piece of hard candy). Chill until firm, at least 4 hours.
Heat oven to 350 degrees F with racks in upper and lower thirds. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Work with 1 log at a time, keeping remaining log chilled. If log softens as you work with it, rewrap it and chill or freeze it until firm. Using serrated knife, cut a 1/4-inch-thick slice from log with a sawing motion and place on baking sheet. Continue cutting, arranging slices as cut about 2 inches apart on sheet.
Bake, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until golden and set, 8 to 10 minutes total. Cool cookies on baking sheets 1 minute before transferring to racks to cool completely. (Parchment can be reused, but cool baking sheets between batches.)
If garnishing with a drizzle of melted chocolate, finely chop the chocolate then melt it in microwave at 50 percent power for 30-second intervals, stirring, until smooth. Or, melt the chopped chocolate in a metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water.
Cool chocolate slightly, then put in plastic bag and press out excess air. Snip a tiny opening in bottom corner of bag, then twist bag firmly just above chocolate and drizzle over cookies on racks set over wax paper or a pan. Let cookies stand at cool room temperature until chocolate is set.

Crunch Bars 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for dish
1/2 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoons fine sea salt
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
6 ounces semisweet or bittersweet chocolate or high-quality milk chocolate, finely chopped
1-1 1/2 cups assorted toppings, such as cocoa nibs, crushed candy, toasted chopped almonds and pistachios, lightly toasted coconut, and popcorn
Flaky sea salt (such as Maldon)

Arrange a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 375 degrees F. Line the bottom and sides of a 13x9x2 inch metal or glass baking dish with foil, allowing 2 inch overhang on either side; butter foil in dish.
Using an electric mixer at medium speed, beat 1 cup butter in a large bowl until smooth, about 3 minutes. Add both sugars and salt; continue to beat until mixture is light and creamy, about 3 minutes longer. Beat in vanilla, then slowly mix in flour, beating until entirely incorporated (dough will be wet and sticky).
Scrape dough into prepared dish. Using your fingertips, spread into a thin, even layer.
Bake cookie base until it is golden brown and has begun to puff and crack, about 22 minutes. DO AHEAD: Base can be made 2 days ahead. Let cool completely and store airtight at room temperature.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Scatter chopped chocolate evenly over cookie base and bake just until chocolate is soft and has begun to melt, about 2 minutes. Immediately spread chocolate in an even layer over base.
Scatter toppings over warm chocolate; lightly but firmly press into chocolate. Sprinkle with salt. Let cool in dish on a wire rack for 15 minutes. Using foil overhang, lift cookie from dish. Place on rack; let cool until chocolate is set, about 2 hours.
Carefully remove foil from cookie and slide onto a cutting board. Cut into bars. DO AHEAD: Crunch Bars can be made 5 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Sweet Potato Cupcakes 
1/2 cup oat flour
6 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
6 tablespoons granulated sugar
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 egg white
1/4 cup cooked or canned sweet potato
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 tablespoons skim milk
1/4 cup confectioners' sugar
3 tablespoons reduced-fat cream cheese, at room temperature
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
2 tablespoons dried cranberries, chopped

Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 16 cups of two 12-cup mini-muffin pans with mini-muffin papers. In a bowl, combine flours and baking soda. In another bowl, cream together sugar and butter with an electric mixer on medium. Add egg white, sweet potato and vanilla; beat on low until well combined. Add flour mixture and milk; beat on low until just combined. Do not overmix. Fill muffin cups 2/3 full. Bake until a toothpick comes out clean, 15 to 18 minutes. Cool 10 minutes in pans; remove from pans and cool completely. In a third bowl, beat confectioners' sugar, cream cheese and spices until smooth. Frost cupcakes; garnish with cranberries.

Fallen Chocolate Cake 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 1 inch pieces, plus more, room temperature, for pan
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar, divided, plus more for pan
10 ounces semisweet or bittersweet chocolate (61%-72% cacao), coarsely chopped
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
6 large eggs
2 tablespoons natural unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup chilled heavy cream
1/2 cup mascarpone
3 tablespoons powdered sugar
A 9 inch-diameter springform pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter springform pan and dust with sugar, tapping out any excess.
Combine chocolate, oil, and 1/2 cup butter in a large heatproof bowl. Set over a saucepan of simmering water and heat, stirring often, until melted. Remove bowl from saucepan.
Separate 4 eggs, placing whites and yolks in separate medium bowls. Add cocoa powder, vanilla, salt, 1/4 cup sugar, and remaining 2 eggs to bowl with yolks and whisk until mixture is smooth. Gradually whisk yolk mixture into chocolate mixture, blending well.
Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat egg whites until frothy. With mixer running, gradually beat in 1/2 cup sugar; beat until firm peaks form.
Gently fold egg whites into chocolate mixture in 2 additions, folding just until incorporated between additions. Scrape batter into prepared pan; smooth top and sprinkle with remaining 2 tablespoons sugar.
Bake until top is puffed and starting to crack and cake is pulling away from edge of pan, 35-45 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack and let cake cool completely in pan (cake will collapse in the center and crack further as it cools). DO AHEAD: Cake can be made 1 day ahead. Cover in pan and store airtight at room temperature.
Using an electric mixer on mediumhigh speed, beat cream, mascarpone, and powdered sugar in a medium bowl until soft peaks form.
Remove sides of springform pan from cake. Mound whipped cream mixture in center of cake.

Lemon-Buttermilk Bundt Cake 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
3 cups all-purpose flour plus more for pan
1 tablespoon baking powder
2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 1/2 cups sugar
Finely grated zest of 8 lemons (about 1/2 cup)
4 large eggs
1 cup buttermilk
3/4 cup apricot or peach preserves
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
A 12-cup Bundt pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour Bundt pan; set aside. Whisk baking powder, salt, and 3 cups flour in a medium bowl. Combine sugar and lemon zest in a large bowl; using your fingertips, rub together until lemon sugar is well blended.
Add 1 cup butter to lemon sugar. Using an electric mixer on high speed, beat until mixture is light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend between additions and occasionally scraping down sides and bottom of bowl with a rubber spatula, until mixture is light and very fluffy, about 4 minutes longer.
Reduce speed to low. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with buttermilk in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Scrape batter into prepared pan; smooth top.
Bake cake until golden brown and beginning to pull away from sides of pan, 60-70 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack and let cake cool in pan for 10 minutes. Invert cake onto rack; remove pan and let cool completely. DO AHEAD: Cake can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
Combine preserves and lemon juice in a small saucepan. Bring to a boil, reduce heat, and simmer, stirring occasionally, until glaze is reduced to 1/2 cup, 6-8 minutes. Strain glaze into a small pitcher or bowl; discard solids in strainer. Pour glaze over cooled cake and let sit for at least 10 minutes.

Greek Yogurt Cheesecake with Pomegranate Syrup 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 cups fine graham cracker crumbs
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled slightly
1/4 cup sugar
2 teaspoons powdered gelatin
1 1/2 pounds cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 cups plain whole-milk Greek yogurt
3/4 cup sugar
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
2 cups flash-pasteurized pomegranate juice
1/2 cup sugar
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
Pomegranate seeds
A 9 inch-diameter springform pan

Coat bottom and sides of pan with nonstick spray. Line bottom with a parchment-paper round. Using your fingertips, mix remaining ingredients in a medium bowl until mixture holds together when pinched tightly. Pack onto bottom of pan in an even layer (using the bottom of a flat measuring cup works well). Chill until firm, at least 1 hour or up to 1 day.
Place gelatin and 1 1/2 tablespoons cold water in a heatproof bowl. Let stand until softened, 5-10 minutes.
Pulse cream cheese, yogurt, sugar, lemon juice, vanilla, and salt in a food processor, scraping down sides as needed, until completely smooth.
Pour water to a depth of 1/2 inch into a small skillet over medium heat. Place bowl with gelatin in skillet; stir until gelatin dissolves, about 2 minutes. Remove bowl from skillet.
With processor running, drizzle gelatin into cream cheese mixture; mix until well blended. Pour into prepared crust. Tap pan firmly on the counter to break up any big air bubbles. Smooth top. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and chill for at least 6 hours before serving. DO AHEAD: Cheesecake can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.
Bring first 3 ingredients to a simmer in a medium saucepan over medium-low heat; simmer, whisking occasionally, until syrup is thickened, shiny, and measures a generous 1/2 cup, 35-40 minutes. Let cool. DO AHEAD: Pomegranate syrup can be made 5 days ahead. Cover; chill. Rewarm slightly before serving.
Cut cheesecake into slices, dipping knife into a large glass of warm water and wiping dry between slices, and place on plates. Drizzle pomegranate syrup over and scatter pomegranate seeds around.

Bacon-Fat Gingersnaps 
3/4 cup bacon fat (from 1 1/2 to 2 pounds bacon), at room temperature
1 cup sugar, plus 1/4 cup for rolling
1/4 cup molasses (not blackstrap) or cane syrup, such as Steen's or Lyle's
1 large egg
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon

Combine all the ingredients in a food processor, and pulse until a smooth, stiff dough forms. Wrap the dough in plastic and chill in the refrigerator for a few hours.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.
Put the 1/4 cup sugar in a shallow bowl. Breaking off 1-tablespoon lumps, roll the dough into balls, drop into the sugar, roll to coat, and place 2 inches apart on the baking sheets.
Bake for 10 to 12 minutes, until the cookies are dark brown. Let cool on the baking sheets for a few minutes, then transfer to a rack to cool completely.

1-2-3-4 cake 
Softened butter and flour, for the pans
N/A and flour
3 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising)
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon plain salt
1/2 pound (2 sticks) unsalted butter, at room temperature
2 cups sugar
4 large eggs, separated, at room temperature
1 cup whole milk, at room temperature
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup freshly squeezed orange juice
2 tablespoons freshly squeezed lemon juice
3/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon finely grated orange zest

Butter and flour the bottom and sides of three 8 by 1 1/2-inch cake pans with the softened butter, tipping out the excess flour.
Sift the flour, baking powder, and salt together. Beat the butter in a large bowl with an electric mixer on high speed until it is light, creamy, and fluffy, about 1 minute. Gradually add the sugar into the butter, and beat until the mixture is very light and fluffy, about 2 minutes more. As the sugar blends in it will change the color of the butter to a much lighter color, almost white.
Whisk the egg yolks in a small bowl until they are well blended. Gradually beat into the butter mixture, mixing well after each addition. With the mixer on low speed, starting with the flour mixture, add the flour mixture in thirds, alternating with two equal additions of the milk, scraping down the sides of the bowl as needed. Beat in the vanilla. In a clean bowl using clean beaters beat the egg whites until they form firm, glossy peaks. Do not overbeat until they are stiff and dry. Fold the whites into the batter.
Pour and scrape the batter into the prepared pans, dividing it equally among them. Give the filled pans a little knock on the countertop to level the batter. Bake in the center of a preheated 350 degrees F oven for 25 minutes, or until each cake springs back when touched in the center. Remove the pans from the oven and put them on wire cake racks to cool for a few minutes, then loosen the layers by running the flat side of a knife blade around the sides of the pans, put a rack on top of each pan, and invert so the cake comes out onto the rack, top side down. Then reverse the layers so they are top side up.
Mix the orange juice, lemon juice, sugar, and orange rind together and drizzle the mixture over the still warm cake layers, being careful not to let it all soak into one spot; then pile the layers on top of each other. Let the cake cool.

Rugelach Three Ways 
1 cup (2 sticks) parve margarine
8 ounces parve cream cheese, softened
2 cups plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour, plus extra for rolling out dough
1 tablespoon confectioners' sugar
4 ounces parve chocolate chips
6 tablespoons parve whipping cream
1/4 pecan halves (optional)
1 cup apricot jam or preserves
4 tablespoons sugar
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 cup sweet orange marmalade
1/3 cup pine nuts

1. To make the dough: Place the margarine, cream cheese, flour, and confectioners' sugar in the bowl of a mixer or food processor fitted with a metal blade or stand mixer with a paddle and mix just until dough comes together. You can also mix the dough together by hand with a wooden spoon in a large bowl.
2. Divide the dough in half and wrap each ball in plastic and flatten. Freeze 1 1/2 hours or overnight and then remove from freezer half an hour before using. The dough is ready to be rolled when you can press gently into it. If it gets too soft, put it back in the freezer to firm up.
3. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
4. To roll out the rugelach, place a large sheet of parchment on the counter. Sprinkle some flour on the parchment, place one of the dough discs on the parchment, sprinkle again with flour, and then top with a second sheet of parchment. Rolling on top of the parchment, roll out the dough to 13 x 10 inches. Peel back the top parchment once or twice while rolling and sprinkle some more flour on the dough. Remove the top parchment but reserve for re-use. This portion of the dough is now ready to be filled with one of three fillings, or another filling of your choice.
5. After filling the dough, Fold the right and left sides (the short sides) of the dough 1/2 inch in toward the center to keep the filling inside. Using the parchment to help you, roll the long side from the top toward you, working slowly and rolling as tightly as you can.
6. Place the parchment you used on top of the dough when rolling it to line a cookie sheet. Place the loaf on the cookie sheet with the seam on the bottom and flatten slightly. Repeat for the other loaf.
7. Bake for 35 to 40 minutes, or until the top begins to brown. Let cool and then slice into 1-inch pieces. These can be frozen. I prefer to freeze the baked loaves and then slice them when ready to serve.
Melt the chocolate chips on the stovetop or in the microwave, mixing often until the chocolate is smooth. Remove from heat, add cream, and mix well. If using pecans, place them in a plastic bag and crush with a rolling pin. Spread the chocolate mixture evenly on the dough all the way to the edges and then sprinkle with pecan pieces.
Spread half the apricot jam or preserves evenly on the dough. Combine sugar and cinnamon in a small bowl and then sprinkle half on top of the jam.
Spread the orange marmalade over the dough and sprinkle on the pine nuts.

Salted Rye Cookies 
1 cup (2 sticks / 225 g) unsalted butter, at room temperature
3/4 cup (150 g) granulated sugar
1 large egg
Kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon finely grated orange zest
2 1/2 cups (230 g) whole (dark) rye flour
3 tablespoons coarse sparkling sugar or turbinado sugar

In a large bowl, using an electric mixer, cream the butter and granulated sugar together until light and fluffy. Beat in the egg, a pinch of salt, and the orange zest. Gradually mix in the flour. Divide the dough into two portions and place each on a sheet of plastic wrap. Shape into logs about 2 inches (5 cm) in diameter and wrap tightly. To shape the soft dough log into a more perfect cylinder, use a paper-towel tube: Cut the tube open vertically along one side and nest the wrapped log inside, then tape or rubber-band the tube closed. Chill in the refrigerator until firm, about 1 hour.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.
On a sheet of waxed paper, combine 1 1/2 teaspoons salt and the sparkling sugar. Unwrap the dough logs and roll them in the mixture to coat well. Place each log on a cutting board and cut into 1/8-inch-thick (3-mm-thick) rounds, arranging the rounds 1 inch (2.5 cm) apart on the prepared baking sheets. Bake until lightly browned at the edges, about 16 minutes, rotating the pans halfway through so the cookies bake evenly. Remove to wire racks to cool completely. The cookies can be stored at room temperature in an airtight container for up to 1 week.

Black Forest Cake 
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled, plus more for buttering cake pan
1/2 cup (2 1/2 ounces) unbleached all-purpose flour plus more for dusting cake pan
1/4 cup Dutch-process cocoa
Pinch of salt
6 large eggs, at room temperature
3/4 cup (4 3/4 ounces) superfine sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup sugar
1 ounce (2 tablespoons) kirsch
4 cups heavy cream
1 cup (4 ounces) powdered sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups Spirited Sour Cherries , drained, or a 24-ounce jar sour cherries such as morello or amarena
jar sour cherries such as morello or amarena
8 fresh cherries with stems (optional)
About 2 1/2 ounces dark chocolate (at least 60% cacao) in a single block
About 1/2 cup ground dark chocolate (at least 60% cacao) or chocolate cookie crumbs
Powdered sugar for dusting

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees . Place the rack in the center of the oven. Butter and flour a 10-inch cake pan that is 3 inches deep such as a springform mold.
Sift the 1/2 cup flour, the cocoa, and the salt together onto a sheet of parchment paper and set aside. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, beat the eggs, sugar, and vanilla at high speed until the mixture has tripled in volume and is very thick, about 8 minutes. When the whisk is lifted, the batter will form a thick ribbon as it falls back into the bowl.
Lower the speed to stir and carefully tap the dry ingredients into the egg mixture. As soon as all the flour has been added to the eggs, stop the machine. Pour in the melted butter, making sure to leave the white, milky solids behind. With a large rubber spatula, using as few strokes as possible, finish folding the flour mixture and butter into the batter until evenly mixed.
Immediately scrape the batter into the prepared pan, place the pan on a baking sheet, and bake until the cake feels just firm to the touch, about 40 minutes. Transfer the cake to a rack and let it cool for about 5 minutes. Then turn the cake upside down onto a rack to cool. This will flatten the slightly domed top.
Place the sugar and 1/2 cup water in a small saucepan over medium-high heat. Bring the mixture to a boil while stirring to dissolve the sugar. Add the kirsch and remove from the heat. Pour the syrup into a small cup or bowl and set it aside.
In a large bowl, whip the cream with the sugar and vanilla on medium-high speed until it holds firm peaks. Do not overbeat; the whipped cream should be smooth and firm. Divide the cream into 4 equal portions and set them aside. (This helps prevent getting to the last bit of decorating and discovering you have run out of cream.) Drain the cherries and divide them into 2 equal piles. Reserve 8 to 12 cherries to garnish the top of the cake if you do not have fresh cherries.
Place the cake on a work surface with its original top up. Trim off any hard crusts. With a long serrated knife, cut the cake horizontally into 3 even layers. Transfer the top layer to a serving plate, arranging it top side down. Brush it liberally with the syrup. With an offset spatula or rubber spatula, smooth on a 1/2-inch layer of whipped cream. Push the cream a little beyond the edge of the cake. (This prevents gaps when you settle the next layer on top.) Nestle half of the cherries into the whipped cream, scattering them evenly over the top.
Place the middle cake layer on top of the cherries, pressing it lightly into the whipped-cream layer. Brush with syrup, spread with whipped cream, and scatter the remaining half of the cherries over the cream.
Finally, add the last cake layer, cut side up, on top of the cherries, again settling it into the whipped-cream layer. Brush with syrup. With an icing spatula or a large rubber spatula, spread a thin layer of whipped cream over the top of the cake. Spread a thicker layer onto the sides.
Pastry shops add a decorative scalloped edge of ground dark chocolate around the base of the cake. Fill your cupped palm with some of the ground chocolate and lift and tilt it onto the base of the cake all around the bottom edge. Rotate the cake between handfulls. It's the heel of your hand that forms the scalloped edge.
Rotate the edge of a sharp knife against the block of chocolate to make curls or cut shavings with a vegetable peeler. Pile them on top of the cake.
Scoop the remaining whipped cream into a pastry bag fitted with a medium star tip. Pipe fat rosettes all around the top edge of the cake. Press a fresh or spirited cherry into the center of each rosette. Refrigerate the cake for at least 4 hours to let the flavors meld. Just before serving, dust the top with powdered sugar.
Use about 24 ounces of preserved sour cherries in syrup. Drain the cherries, reserving the syrup and cherries separately. In a small saucepan, bring to a boil 1/3 cup espresso or strong coffee, the reserved syrup, and 3/4 cup sugar (or to taste), stirring until the sugar dissolves. Remove from the heat and reserve until needed.
For our Christmas menu in 2010, we used Black Forest flavors for our bûche de Noël. We baked the génoise as a sheet cake, soaked it with the kirsch syrup, spread it thickly with the whipped cream, and then scattered the cherries over the cream before rolling up the cake. We iced it with the traditional chocolate buttercream. This makes a lighter-than-usual bûche, and our guests cleaned their plates.

Spice Cookies 
3/4 cup plus 2 tbsp / 125 g currants
2 tbsp brandy
scant 2 cups / 240 g all-purpose flour
1 1/2 tsp best-quality cocoa powder
1/2 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp each ground cinnamon, allspice, ginger, and nutmeg
1/4 tsp salt
5 oz / 150 g good-quality dark chocolate, coarsely grated
1/2 cup / 125 g unsalted butter, at room temperature
2/3 cup / 125 g superfine sugar
1 tsp vanilla extract
1/2 tsp grated lemon zest
1/2 tsp grated orange zest
1/2 large free-range egg
1 tbsp diced candied citrus peel
3 tbsp freshly squeezed lemon juice
1 1/3 cups / 160 g confectioners' sugar

Soak the currants in the brandy for 10 minutes. Mix together the flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda, spices, salt, and dark chocolate. Mix well with a whisk.
Put the butter, sugar, vanilla, and lemon and orange zest in a stand mixer fitted with the beater attachment and beat to combine but not aerate much, about 1 minute. With the mixer running, slowly add the egg and mix for about 1 minute. Add the dry ingredients, followed by the currants and brandy. Mix until everything comes together.
Gently knead the dough in the bowl with your hands until it comes together and is uniform. Divide the dough into 1 3/4-oz / 50g chunks and shape each chunk into a perfectly round ball. Place the balls on 1 or 2 baking sheets lined with parchment paper, spacing them about 3/4 inch / 2 cm apart, and let rest in the fridge for at least 1 hour.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F / 190 degrees C. Bake the cookies for 15 to 20 minutes, until the top firms up but the center is still slightly soft. Remove from the oven. Once the cookies are out of the oven, allow to cool for only 5 minutes, and then transfer to a wire rack. While the cookies are still warm, whisk together the glaze ingredients until a thin and smooth icing forms. Pour 1 tablespoon of the glaze over each biscuit, leaving it to drip and coat the biscuit with a very thin, almost transparent film. Finish each with 3 pieces of candied peel placed at the center. Leave to set and serve, or store in an airtight container for a day or two.

Concord Grape Cornmeal Cake 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, cooled slightly, plus more
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour; more for grapes
1/2 cup yellow cornmeal
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
2 large eggs
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup vegetable oil
6 tablespoons buttermilk
2 tablespoons honey
1/2 pound Concord or black grapes, stemmed, seeds removed, divided

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter an 8x8x2 inch baking dish. Whisk 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons flour, cornmeal, baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl; set aside. Whisk eggs, sugar, lemon zest, and vanilla in a large bowl to combine. Add oil and 2 tablespoons melted butter; whisk to blend. Whisk in flour mixture, then buttermilk. Stir in honey, being careful not to fully incorporate.
Pour batter into prepared dish. Toss half of grapes with a large pinch of flour in a medium bowl until well coated. Scatter over cake batter.
Bake until cake turns light golden brown around the edges and starts to set, 15-17 minutes. Remove from oven and scatter remaining grapes over cake. Continue to bake until top is golden brown and cake springs back when pressed, 20-25 minutes longer. Transfer to a wire rack. Let cool slightly in pan. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Strawberry Buckle with Lemon-Pistachio Streusel 
6 tablespoons (3 oz / 85 g) cold unsalted butter
1 cup (4.9 oz / 140 g) all-purpose flour
1/2 cup (3.5 oz / 100 g) sugar
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
Finely grated zest of 1 lemon
1/2 cup (2.7 oz / 76 g) unsalted shelled pistachios, coarsely chopped
1 cup (4.9 oz / 140 g) all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
11 tablespoons (5.5 oz / 156 g) unsalted butter, at room temperature
3/4 cup (5.3 oz / 150 g) sugar
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
2 eggs (3.5 oz / 100 g), at room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup (4.7 oz / 133 g) strawberries, cut into bite-sized pieces

TO MAKE THE STREUSEL, cut the butter into small chunks and let sit at room temperature for 5 minutes.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the flour, sugar, salt, and zest. Add the butter and mix on low speed until the mixture resembles coarse beach sand, about 2 minutes. Add the pistachios and mix just until the streusel begins to clump together and look like gravel, being careful not to let it come together to form a dough. If not using the streusel right away, store it in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days or in the freezer for up to 1 month.
TO MAKE THE CAKE, preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Butter and flour the bottom and sides of a 9-inch (23 cm) springform pan.
Sift the flour and baking powder into a small bowl.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the butter on low speed until smooth, 1 to 2 minutes. Add the sugar and salt and mix on low speed until well combined. Scrape down the sides of the bowl, then mix on medium speed until light and fluffy, 4 to 5 minutes.
In a small bowl, combine the eggs and the vanilla extract and whisk vigorously until well blended.
With the mixer on medium speed, add the egg mixture very slowly, in a steady stream, and mix until well-incorporated and very smooth, about 30 seconds. Scrape down the sides of the bowl, then mix on medium speed for 30 more seconds.
Scrape down the sides of the bowl, then add the flour mixture. Mix on low speed just until uniform in texture. Use a rubber spatula to gently fold in the fruit until evenly incorporated.
TO ASSEMBLE AND BAKE, pour the batter into the prepared pan, smooth it with an offset or rubber spatula, and sprinkle the streusel evenly over the top. Bake for 55 to 60 minutes, until the streusel is dry and golden and the buckle is firm and springs back when gently pressed in the center, rotating the pan midway through the baking time.
Let the cake cool in the pan on a wire rack for 30 minutes, then remove from the pan. Serve warm or at room temperature. Stored in a covered container at room temperature, it will keep for up to 3 days.

Plum and Polenta Cake 
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons finely ground cornmeal or semolina flour
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
Pinch of kosher salt
13 tablespoons butter, softened
3/4 cup granulated sugar
4 large egg yolks
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon grated lemon zest
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
4 plums, cut in half and pitted
2 tablespoons packed light brown sugar

1. Preheat the oven to 350  degrees F. Grease and lightly flour an 8 x 2-inch round cake pan or an 8-inch springform pan, tapping out any excess flour. Set aside.
2. In a small bowl, toss the cornmeal, all-purpose flour, baking powder, and salt. Set aside.
3. In a large bowl, beat the butter and granulated sugar together with an electric mixer, until pale yellow and creamy, about 5 minutes. Scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula and add the egg yolks, one at a time, beating after each addition. Scrape down the sides of the bowl and add the whole eggs, one at a time, beating after each addition. Mix in the lemon zest and vanilla. Add the dry ingredients and blend until just combined.
4. Spread the batter in the prepared pan. Place the plum halves, skin side down, at even intervals on top of the batter. Sprinkle the brown sugar on top of the fruit and batter. Bake until the cake is golden brown on top and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, about 45 minutes.

Beurre & Sel Jammers 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup powdered sugar, sifted
1/2 teaspoons fine sea salt
2 large egg yolks, room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
5 1/2 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup thick jam, such as lingonberry, apricot, orange marmalade, and blackberry
A 2 inch cookie cutter; 3 standard 12-cup muffin tins

Using an electric mixer at medium speed, beat butter in a large bowl until smooth and creamy, about 3 minutes. Add both sugars and salt; beat until well blended, about 1 minute. Reduce speed to low; beat in egg yolks and vanilla. Add flour and mix just to combine. Dough will be soft and slightly sticky.
Divide dough in half. Place each half between sheets of parchment or waxed paper. Flatten dough into disks. Working with 1 disk at a time, roll out dough, occasionally lifting paper on both sides for easy rolling, until 1/4 inch thick. Freeze dough in paper until firm, at least 2 hours. DO AHEAD: Dough can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and keep frozen.
Mix flour, sugar, and salt in a small mixing bowl. Using your fingertips, rub butter and vanilla into dry ingredients until no large lumps remain and butter is well incorporated. Streusel will be sandy and hold its shape when pressed between your fingers. Cover and chill. DO AHEAD: Streusel can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.
Arrange a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F.
Using cookie cutter, cut out rounds of frozen dough from freezer. Place rounds in bottom of muffin cups and gently pat to flatten. Continue cutting frozen dough into rounds; gather scraps and repeat process of rolling out and cutting to make 34 rounds. Cover muffin tins with foil and chill in freezer until dough is firm, about 30 minutes or up to 2 days.
Spoon about 1 teaspoon jam into the center of each round of dough. Using your fingers or a small spoon, sprinkle 1-1 1/2 tablespoons streusel around edges of each cookie, trying not to get any in the jam.
Bake cookies, in batches if needed, until sides and streusel are golden, 20-22 minutes. Let cool in tins for 15 minutes. Run a small knife around edges of muffin cups; gently remove cookies and let cool completely on a wire rack. DO AHEAD: Cookies can be baked 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Rugelach 
2 cups (4 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into tablespoon-size pats
4 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon Diamond Crystal kosher salt
1 pound cream cheese, chilled
1/4 cup sour cream
2 cups dried tart cherries
1 cup sugar
1 cup water
Pinch of Diamond Crystal kosher salt
1 teaspoon almond extract
1 1/2 cups blanched and lightly toasted almonds
2 cups coarsely chopped bittersweet chocolate
1 cup hazelnuts
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup all-purpose f lour
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon Diamond Crystal kosher salt
2 cups dried apricots
1 cup sugar
1 cup water
Decorative coarse sugar, for sprinkling
1 large egg, beaten, for the egg wash

Combine the butter and flour in the bowl of a food processor and process until the chunks of butter are broken up and the mixture has taken on the consistency of wet sand, about 30 seconds.
Transfer the butter-flour mixture to a large mixing bowl and add the salt, cream cheese, and sour cream. Mix the ingredients together vigorously with your hands, breaking up the cream cheese and working it into the f lour with your fingers until the mixture is crumbly and only pea-size chunks of the cream cheese remain.
Turn out the dough onto a sheet of aluminum foil, press it down slightly into a thick disk, and wrap it very tightly in the foil. Refrigerate it for at least 20 minutes or overnight. Meanwhile, make the filling.
Combine the cherries, sugar, water, and salt in a medium saucepan and bring to a boil over medium-high heat; reduce the heat and simmer until syrupy, about 5 minutes.
Remove from the heat and add the almond extract. Let the mixture rest until it's cool enough to handle. Place the almonds in the bowl of a food processor and process until crushed, about 10 seconds. Transfer the almonds to a bowl and add the reserved cherry mixture to the food processor; process until the mixture has a jam-like consistency, scraping down the sides of the machine as necessary. Add the almonds back in and process for a few seconds, until all the ingredients are thoroughly combined. The filling can be stored in the freezer for up to 2 months.
Combine all the filling ingredients in the bowl of a food processor and process until crumbly. The filling can be stored in the freezer for up to 2 months.
Combine all the filling ingredients in a medium saucepan and bring them to a boil over medium-high heat; reduce the heat and simmer for 5 minutes. Set the mixture aside until it is just cool enough to handle, then transfer it to the bowl of a food processor and process until smooth. Refrigerate the filling until it's completely cooled before using. The filling can be stored in the freezer for up to 2 months.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line a 10-by-15-inch baking sheet with parchment paper, grease it with oil or cooking spray, and sprinkle it with a small handful of decorative sugar.
Unwrap the dough and divide it into 2 equal-size portions. On a well-floured surface, press and work one of the dough portions into a ball, then press the ball into a disk that's about 3/4 inch thick. The dough will be very firm at first and may crack around the edges, so keep working it and bringing the cracks together until you have a smooth-sided disk, adding more flour as needed to keep your hands from sticking to the dough.
Roll out the dough into a 10- to 12-inch circle of even thickness. Fold the circle into a half moon and use a knife or dough cutter to trim away any uneven or protruding edges, then unfold the dough so it's a circle again.
If you're using the chocolate-hazelnut filling, brush a little of the egg wash over the dough. Use a spatula to spread a heaping cup of the filling of your choice evenly over the dough. Then use a dough cutter or pizza cutter to cut the circle into 16 equal-size wedges, just as you would a pizza.
Then, working with one wedge at a time, roll a wedge up to make the rugelach, starting with the wide end and rolling toward the pointy end. Transfer the rugelach to the prepared baking sheet. Repeat with the remaining dough and filling.
Brush the tops of the rugelach with the egg wash, sprinkle lightly with more decorative sugar, and bake, rotating the tray 180 degrees halfway through cooking, until the pastries are light golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes.

Peanut Butter Sandwich Cookies, aka  inchThe Nora Ephron inch 
electric Mixer, 1-ounce ice Cream scoop (optional but recommended for the most uniform cookie sandwiches)
1 1/2 cups (14 ounces/400 grams) creamy peanut butter, such as Skippy
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick/3 ounces/168 grams) unsalted butter, softened
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
2 tablespoons honey
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/2 cups (8 ounces/227 grams) all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1 2/3 cups (5 1/4 ounces/99 grams) rolled oats, such as Quaker old fashioned
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons (2 sticks plus 2 tablespoons/11 1/4 ounces/320 grams) unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup (3 1/2 ounces/125 grams) crunchy natural peanut butter, such as Adams, well mixed
3/4 cup (5 1/4 ounces/150 grams) granulated sugar
2/3 cup (5 1/4 ounces/150 grams) packed brown sugar
2 large eggs at room temperature
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract

1. To make the peanut butter filling, combine all the filling ingredients in a bowl using a whisk. Cover and chill the mixture until you are ready to fill the cookies.
2. To make the peanut butter cookies, in a bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda, and baking powder. Stir in the oats and salt. Set the dry ingredients aside.
3. In the bowl of an electric mixer with the paddle attachment, combine the butter, chunky peanut butter, and sugars and cream on medium-high speed until very fluffy and pale, at least 3 minutes, scraping down the mixing bowl as needed.
4. Turn the mixer to medium-low and add the eggs, one at a time, beating to incorporate each egg and scraping down the bowl as needed. Beat in the vanilla extract. Add the dry ingredients on low speed in 3 to 4 additions and mix until just combined. Do not overmix. Remove the bowl from the mixer and scrape down the bowl with a rubber spatula, going all the way to the bottom of the bowl to mix in the dry ingredients well.
5. Use an ice cream scoop to portion all the cookies in 1-ounce scoops (or use about 1 heaping tablespoon per cookie), placing the scoops on a parchment lined baking sheet. You should have about 48 cookies. (You can place all the cookies close together for the chilling step—you will space them for baking later.) Chill the scooped cookies for at least 2 hours or longer.
6. When you are ready to bake the cookies, preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Arrange 8 cookies, spaced evenly apart and staggered, on each parchment-lined baking sheet. (Note: Do not flatten the cookies; they will flatten as they bake.) Set the baking sheet inside another baking sheet to double pan and place it in the oven. Bake until evenly golden, about 12 minutes, rotating the pan halfway through the cooking time. If you have 2 double-panned pans in the oven at the same time, also switch them between the racks. Remove the pan from the oven and cool on a wire rack for about 10 minutes before removing the cookies with a metal spatula. Allow the cookies to cool completely before filling them.
7. To make a cookie sandwich, turn one cookie flat side up and spread with a little less than 2 teaspoons of filling. (If you have a 1-ounce scoop, you can slightly underfill it to portion the filling or underfill a tablespoon.) Top with another cookie, flat side down, pressing gently. Repeat until all the cookies are assembled into sandwiches.

Spiced Bundt Cake with Apple Caramel Sauce 
1 cup sugar
Pinch of cream of tartar
1/4 cup fresh apple cider
1/4 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon apple cider vinegar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
2 1/3 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/4 cups slivered almonds
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 1/2 teaspoons freshly grated nutmeg
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground allspice
3/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup powdered sugar plus more
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
3 large eggs
5 large egg yolks
1 cup whole milk
A 10 inch-diameter nonstick Bundt pan

Combine sugar, cream of tartar, and 1/4 cup water in a medium saucepan over medium heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Cook, without stirring and occasionally swirling pan for even cooking, until mixture turns a dark amber color. Remove from heat; slowly add apple cider, cream, vinegar, vanilla, and salt (mixture will bubble vigorously), whisking to combine. Return pan to medium heat and bring to a vigorous boil. Reduce heat to a simmer and cook, stirring to dissolve any caramel bits, for 1 minute. Remove from heat and let cool. Set aside. DO AHEAD: Caramel sauce can be made 1 week ahead. Cover and chill. Rewarm slightly before using.
Arrange a rack in middle of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Generously coat Bundt pan with nonstick spray. Place butter in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean; add bean. Cook, stirring often, until butter foams, then browns (do not burn), about 5 minutes. Carefully remove vanilla bean; pour brown butter into a medium bowl and chill until slightly firm, about 45 minutes.
Pulse flour and almonds in a food processor until almonds are finely ground. Transfer to a large bowl. Whisk in baking powder and next 7 ingredients; set aside.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat brown butter, brown sugar, sugar, and 3/4 cup powdered sugar in a large bowl, frequently scraping down sides and bottom of bowl and beaters, until light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Mix in lemon zest. Add eggs and yolks one at a time, beating to blend between additions; beat mixture until fluffy, about 3 minutes.
Reduce speed to low. Add half of dry ingredients; mix until almost blended. Add milk and mix until almost blended. Add remaining dry ingredients; mix until batter is blended and smooth. Scrape into prepared pan. Tap pan gently on counter to even out.
Bake until a tester inserted near the center of cake comes out clean and cake is dark golden brown and has begun pulling from sides of pan, 65-70 minutes.
Transfer pan to a wire rack. Let cake cool in pan for 25 minutes. Invert cake onto rack and let cool completely, about 1 hour. DO AHEAD: Cake can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
Dust cake lightly with powdered sugar. Drizzle caramel sauce over cake, allowing it to drip down sides and into grooves and crevices. Serve remaining sauce alongside.

Puerto Rican Pineapple Rum Cake 
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 1/2 cups dark rum
1/4 cup unsalted butter
1/2 pineapple, cored and cut into 1/4-inch-thick slices
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
2 cups sugar
4 large eggs
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 teaspoon dark rum
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup crushed pecans
Vanilla ice cream for serving
1 (9-inch) square cake pan

Position a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees F.
In a small saucepan over moderate heat, combine the brown sugar and 1 cup rum, and bring to a simmer. Continue simmering, stirring occasionally, until reduced by about 1/3. Whisk in the butter. Add the pineapple slices, gently stirring to coat them in the glaze, then let them sit for about 3 minutes. Transfer the pineapple slices to the bottom of a 9-inch square cake pan, arranging them to cover the bottom.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the butter and sugar and beat on high until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add the eggs, one at a time, and beat on medium until fully incorporated. Add the vanilla and rum, and beat for 30 seconds. Fold in the flour and salt. Scrape the batter (it will be thick) over the pineapples in the pan. Sprinkle the pecans over the batter and bake until a tester inserted in the center comes out clean, about 1 hour and 10 minutes. Let the cake cool on a rack for 15 minutes then flip it onto a serving plate so that the pineapples are on top. DO AHEAD: The cake be baked in advance, covered, and kept at room temperature up to 10 hours.
In a small saucepan over moderate heat, combine the rum glaze and the remaining 1/2 cup rum and warm until heated through. Cut the cake into squares and serve with vanilla ice cream and warm rum glaze.

Rugelach 
4 ounces cold cream cheese, cut into 4 pieces
1 stick (8 tablespoons) cold unsalted butter, cut into 4 pieces
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup seedless raspberry jam, apricot jam or marmalade
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 cup chopped nuts (I prefer pecans, but you can use walnuts or almonds)
1/4 cup plump, moist dried currants
4 ounces bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped, or 2/3 cup store-bought mini chocolate chips
1 large egg
1 teaspoon cold water
2 tablespoons sugar, preferably decorating (coarse) sugar

Let the cream cheese and butter rest on the counter for 10 minutes-you want them to be slightly softened but still cool.
Put the flour and salt in a food processor, scatter over the chunks of cream cheese and butter and pulse the machine 6 to 10 times. Then process, scraping down the sides of the bowl often, just until the dough forms large curds-don't work it so long that it forms a ball on the blade.
Turn the dough out, gather it into a ball and divide it in half. Shape each half into a disk, wrap the disks in plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 2 hours, or up to 1 day. (Wrapped airtight, the dough can be frozen for up to 1 month.)
Heat the jam in a saucepan over low heat, or do this in a microwave oven, until it liquefies. Mix the sugar and cinnamon together.
Line two baking sheets with parchment or silicone mats. (Silicone baking mats are great for rugelach.)
Pull one packet of dough from the refrigerator. If it is too firm to roll easily, either leave it on the counter for about 10 minutes or give it a few bashes with your rolling pin.
On a lightly floured surface, roll the dough into a 11- to 12-inch circle. Spoon (or brush) a thin gloss of jam over the dough, and sprinkle over half of the cinnamon sugar. Scatter over half of the nuts, half of the currants and half of the chopped chocolate. Cover the filling with a piece of wax paper and gently press the filling into the dough, then remove the paper and save it for the next batch.
Using a pizza wheel or a sharp knife, cut the dough into 16 wedges, or triangles. (The easiest way to do this is to cut the dough into quarters, then to cut each quarter into 4 triangles.) Starting at the base of each triangle, roll the dough up so that each cookie becomes a little crescent. Arrange the roll-ups on one baking sheet, making sure the points are tucked under the cookies, and refrigerate. Repeat with the second packet of dough, and refrigerate the cookies for at least 30 minutes before baking. (The cookies can be covered and refrigerated overnight or frozen for up to 2 months; don't defrost before baking, just add a couple of extra minutes to the baking time.)
Position the racks to divide the oven into thirds and preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Stir the egg and water together, and brush a bit of this glaze over each rugelach. Sprinkle the cookies with the sugar.
Bake the cookies for 20 to 25 minutes, rotating the sheets from top to bottom and front to back at the midway point, until they are puffed and golden. Transfer the cookies to racks to cool to just warm or to room temperature.

English Eccles Cake 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 cup dried currants
2 tablespoons candied mixed fruit peel, chopped
1/2 cup white sugar, plus extra for decoration
1/2 cup dark brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon allspice
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 (17.5-ounce) package frozen puff pastry, thawed
1/4 cup whole milk
1 large egg, beaten

1. Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Thoroughly grease a large baking sheet.
2. Melt butter in a small saucepan over medium heat. Stir in currants, fruit peel, white sugar, brown sugar, allspice, nutmeg, and cinnamon. Mix thoroughly until sugar is dissolved and fruit is coated. Remove from heat.
3. Roll out thawed pastry on a clean, lightly-floured surface until it is 1/4-inch thick. Cut out eight circles, each roughly 5 inches in diameter; set aside remaining pastry dough for use in other recipes. Divide currant mixture evenly between circles, then moisten edges of pastries with a little bit of milk, fold together, and pinch to seal.
4. Turn pastries upside down onto floured surface and carefully roll out to make a wider and flatter pastry. Be careful not to break the dough.
5. Brush cakes with beaten egg, then sprinkle with white sugar. Make three parallel cuts across the top of each cake, then place on greased baking sheet.
6. Bake pastries in preheated oven for 15-20 minutes or until golden brown. Remove and sprinkle with a little more sugar, then serve.

Quick Double-Chocolate Sheet Cake 
3/4 cup plus 2 1/2 tablespoons butter, softened
1 cup superfine sugar
4 large eggs
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa, dissolved in 3 to 4 tablespoons boiling water to make a smooth paste
1 2/3 cups less 1 tablespoon self-rising flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
3 1/2 ounces semisweet chocolate chips chocolate buttons, smarties, or fresh raspberries, to decorate
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa, dissolved in 2 tablespoons boiling water to make a paste
5 1/2 tablespoons butter, softened
1 2/3 cups confectioners' sugar

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease and line a 11 x 7 x 2-inch baking pan.
In a large bowl, place the softened butter, sugar, eggs, and dissolved cocoa. Sift over the flour and baking powder. Using a hand mixer, beat the mixture until it is pale and creamy, about 2 minutes. Using a metal spoon, fold in the chocolate chips.
Turn the mixture into the greased pan and spread it out evenly. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, or until risen and springy to the touch. Cool slightly before turning out onto a wire rack.
Once the cake is cool, in a bowl, place all the frosting ingredients and, using the hand mixer, beat together well. Spread over the cake. Run a fork across the surface of the frosting to create a wavy pattern of lines.

Amaretto Olive Oil Cake 
1 cup (4 1/2 ounces) blanched slivered almonds
1/4 cup matzoh cake meal (see Cooks' notes)
1/4 cup potato starch (see Cooks' notes)
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar, divided
1/4 teaspoon salt plus more for beating whites
5 large egg yolks
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil plus more for pan
3 tablespoons Amaretto liqueur
4 large egg whites at room temperature
Fresh raspberries for serving
A 9-inch round cake pan (2 inches deep) or 9-inch springform pan; parchment paper

Heat oven to 325 degrees F with rack in middle. Grease pan with some oil, then line bottom with a round of parchment.
Toast almonds in a rimmed baking sheet until fragrantly toasty and a shade darker, 10 to 12 minutes. Cool completely.
Combine toasted almonds, matzoh meal, potato starch, 1/4 cup sugar, and salt in a food processor. Pulse until almonds are very finely ground.
Whisk together egg yolks, olive oil, Amaretto, and half of almond mixture in a large bowl until combined (mixture will be slightly grainy from almonds).
Beat whites with a pinch of salt in another bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until they just hold soft peaks. Increase speed to medium high and add 1/2 cup sugar in a slow steady stream, beating, and continue to beat meringue until it holds stiff glossy peaks.
Fold one third of meringue into yolk mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining meringue gently but thoroughly.
Sprinkle remaining almond mixture evenly over the batter and fold in gently but thoroughly. Pour batter into prepared pan, and smooth the top. Sprinkle the top evenly with remaining 2 tablespoons sugar.
Bake until cake is golden, the top has formed a crust, and a tester comes out clean, 40 to 45 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and run a sharp knife along edge of pan. Cool cake in pan 30 minutes.
If using a springform pan, remove sides of springform. Then, whether you are using the springform or a round cake pan, invert cake onto the rack. Remove bottom (if using springform) and parchment. Set another cooling rack over bottom of cake, then reinvert cake onto second rack, and cool completely.
Serve cake in wedges with berries on the side.

Thai Iced Tea Cake 
1 stick unsalted butter
1/2 cup loose-leaf Thai tea (cha-yen)
2 eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla
1 (6-ounce) can sweetened condensed milk, divided in half
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup powdered sugar

1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Use butter wrapper to grease an 8-inch loaf pan, 8-inch square cake pan, or 8-inch round cake pan.
2. Brew tea with 3/4 cup boiling water, covered, for 10 minutes. Strain tea leaves and discard. In a mixing bowl, combine butter and freshly brewed tea until butter is completely melted. Whisk vanilla, half of the sweetened condensed milk, and the eggs. Mixture should be bright orange and very creamy. Gently stir in salt, flour, and baking powder. Pour into prepared pan and bake for 35-45 minutes or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. Allow cake to cool for 20 minutes.
3. While cake cools, make the glaze. Whisk together remaining sweetened condensed milk and powdered sugar until a thick, creamy mixture forms.
4. To serve cake, run a knife along the edge of the cooled cake to gently loosen it from its pan. Turn cake out onto a plate and drizzle glaze over the top, allowing it to run down the sides of the cake.
5. Cake can either be served immediately or chilled and served cold.

Lemon Buttermilk Cake 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, plus more for greasing, at room temperature
1 3/4 cups sugar
2 2/3 cups all-purpose flour, plus more for dusting
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups buttermilk
1 tablespoon lemon zest
5 tablespoons lemon juice
4 large eggs, at room temperature
3/4 cup confectioners' sugar, plus more as needed

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Generously grease and flour a (9-inch) Bundt pan or line 36 muffin tins with paper liners.
2. In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the butter and sugar and beat on medium speed until the mixture is smooth and light in texture, about 5 minutes. While the butter is beating, sift together the flour, baking soda, and salt, and set aside. In a small bowl, combine the buttermilk, lemon zest, and 4 tablespoons of the lemon juice and set aside.
3. Add the eggs to the butter-sugar mixture, one at a time, beating well and scraping down the bowl after each addition. In 3 additions, alternate adding the sifted dry ingredients and the wet ingredients to the butter-sugar mixture, stirring on low until just incorporated.
4. Pour the batter into the prepared Bundt pan or fill each muffin cup two-thirds full with batter. Bake until the center of cake springs back when touched and a skewer inserted near the center comes out clean, 1 hour to 1 hour and 15 minutes. Bake cupcakes until they rise in a dome shape and spring back when lightly pressed with a fingertip, 16 to 20 minutes.
5. Remove the cake from the oven and let cool completely in the pan on a wire rack. Release the sides and bottom of the cake from the pan with a narrow metal spatula or knife. Invert the pan and turn out the cake. Place a wire rack in a baking pan and set the cake, right side up, on the rack.
6. In a small bowl, combine the confectioner's sugar, the remaining 1 tablespoon lemon juice, and 1 tablespoon cold water and stir until very smooth. Add a little more confectioners' sugar or water as necessary to achieve a glaze consistency (similar to that of honey). Spoon the glaze evenly over the cake. When the glaze has firmed, transfer the cake to a plate. Slice and serve at room temperature.

Yellow Layer Cake with Chocolate-Sour Cream Frosting 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
4 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 1/2 cups buttermilk
1/2 cup vegetable oil
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
6 large egg yolks
3 large eggs
14 ounces semisweet or bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1/4 cup light corn syrup
2 cups sour cream
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 3/4 cups powdered sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
Three 9 inch-diameter cake pans with 2 inch sides

Arrange racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Coat cake pans with nonstick spray. Line bottom of pans with parchment-paper rounds; coat paper. Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a large bowl until no lumps remain. Combine buttermilk, oil, and vanilla in a medium bowl.
Combine sugar, butter, and brown sugar in another large bowl. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean. Using an electric mixer, beat butter mixture until light and fluffy, 3-4 minutes. Add yolks and eggs one at a time, beating to blend between additions and occasionally scraping down sides and bottom of bowl.
Continue to beat mixture, occasionally scraping down sides and bottom of bowl, until almost doubled in volume and very light, airy, and pale yellow, 5-6 minutes. It's very important that no lumps remain at this stage. (Occasional scraping of the bowl, especially the bottom, helps prevent lumps.)
With mixer on low, add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with buttermilk mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients.
Divide batter evenly among prepared pans, about 3 1/2 cups per pan. Smooth tops.
Bake, rotating cakes from left to right and top to bottom halfway through, until cakes are light golden brown, the centers spring back when gently pressed, and a tester inserted into the centers comes out with a few moist crumbs attached, 35-40 minutes.
Transfer cakes to wire racks; let cool in pans for at least 30 minutes. Invert cakes onto racks, peel off parchment, and let cool completely.
Using a long serrated knife, remove top dome and any bumps from each cake to create a flat surface. Slice each cake in half horizontally to make 6 layers total. DO AHEAD: Cakes can be baked 1 day ahead. Wrap tightly in plastic wrap and store at room temperature.
Stir chocolate and corn syrup in a large metal bowl set over a large saucepan of simmering water until melted and smooth; remove from heat. Stir sour cream, salt, and vanilla in a medium metal bowl; set over same saucepan of simmering water. Stir until mixture is warm but not hot, about 2 minutes. Add sour cream mixture to chocolate mixture; stir until smooth and glossy. Set aside.
Using an electric mixer, beat powdered sugar and butter in a medium bowl until light and fluffy, 2-3 minutes. Scrape down sides of bowl. Slowly beat in chocolate mixture. Continue beating until no lumps remain, about 2 minutes. Frosting should be smooth and shiny. Cover and chill until slightly firmed up, about 30 minutes.
Place 1 cake layer on a cake stand or large plate. Spoon 1/3 cup frosting over; using an offset spatula or the back of a spoon, smooth frosting to edge of cake, creating an even layer. Place another cake layer on top. Repeat with frosting and remaining cake layers. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. DO AHEAD: Cake can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with a cake dome and store at room temperature.

Banana-Chocolate Chip Cake With Peanut Butter Frosting 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup (packed) light brown sugar
3 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups mashed very ripe bananas
1 cup sour cream
1 10-ounce bag mini chocolate chips
2 cups creamy peanut butter
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Chocolate chips, mini chocolate chips, and chocolate kisses
Two 8x8x2 inch cake pans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat cake pans with nonstick spray. Line bottom of pans with parchment; coat paper. Whisk flour, baking soda, and salt in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat sugar, butter, and brown sugar in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend between additions and occasionally scraping down sides and bottom of bowl. Beat in vanilla.
Add dry ingredients; beat on low speed just to blend. Add bananas and sour cream; beat just to blend. Fold in mini chips. Divide batter evenly among pans; smooth tops.
Bake cakes until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Transfer to wire racks; let cool in pans for 10 minutes. Invert cakes onto racks; peel off parchment and let cool completely.
Using an electric mixer, beat first 4 ingredients in a medium bowl until a light and fluffy frosting forms, 2-3 minutes.
Place 1 cake on a platter. Spread 1 1/4 cups frosting over. Place remaining cake on top. Cover top and sides of cake with remaining frosting. Garnish with chocolate chips and kisses. DO AHEAD: Cake can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and chill. Let stand at room temperature for 1 hour before serving.

The Tomboy Cake 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour plus more
1 cup slivered almonds
4 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 cup whole milk
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 1/2 cups sugar, divided
4 large egg yolks
6 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
1/3 cup fresh lemon juice
1/3 cup sugar
2 large eggs
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2 inch pieces
1 cup chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
3 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
2/3 cup strawberry jam
Three 8 inch-diameter cake pans with 2 inch sides; a candy thermometer; a pastry bag; a large star piping tip

Arrange racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour cake pans. Line bottom of pans with parchment–paper rounds; butter paper. Pulse 2 1/2 cups flour and almonds in a food processor until almonds are finely ground. Transfer to a medium bowl and whisk in baking powder and salt; set aside.
Combine milk and vanilla in a measuring cup; set aside. Using an electric mixer, beat 2 cups sugar and 1 cup butter in a large bowl until light and fluffy, 3–4 minutes. Add egg yolks and continue to beat, occasionally scraping down sides and bottom of bowl, until pale yellow and fluffy, 4–5 minutes. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with milk mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. (Do not overmix or cake will dome and be dense.)
Using an electric mixer with clean, dry beaters, whip egg whites in a medium bowl until light and frothy. With mixer running, gradually add remaining 1/2 cup sugar. Beat meringue until medium peaks form, 3–4 minutes.
Fold 1/4 of meringue into batter just until incorporated (this will lighten batter, making it easier to fold in remaining meringue). Gently fold in remaining meringue until fully incorporated. Divide batter evenly among prepared pans. Smooth tops.
Bake cakes, rotating from left to right and top to bottom halfway through, until golden brown and the sides of cakes begin to pull away from pans, 40–45 minutes. Transfer to wire racks. Let cakes cool in pans for 10 minutes. Invert cakes onto racks; peel off parchment and let cool completely.
If needed, use a long serrated knife to trim dome from each cake (about 1/8 inch) to create a flat surface. DO AHEAD: Cakes can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap tightly in plastic wrap and store at room temperature.
Place 2 teaspoons cold water in a small bowl; sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand until gelatin softens, about 10 minutes.
Whisk lemon juice, sugar, and eggs in a medium metal bowl; place over a large saucepan of simmering water and cook, whisking constantly, until mixture thickens, 5–6 minutes. (Do not allow bottom of bowl to touch the water or mixture will cook too fast and eggs may scramble.)
Remove bowl from heat and transfer mixture to a blender. With blender running, add butter 1 piece at a time until butter is completely incorporated. Add softened gelatin and blend 30 seconds longer.
Transfer lemon curd to a medium bowl and place a piece of plastic wrap directly on the surface of the curd. Chill until cold and set, 3–4 hours or overnight.
Using an electric mixer, beat chilled cream in another medium bowl until soft peaks form (warm cream will not whip up). Add powdered sugar. Continue to beat until medium peaks form, 2–3 minutes. Whisk curd to loosen; gently fold in whipped cream; set aside. DO AHEAD: Lemon cream can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill.
Bring 3/4 cup sugar, salt, and 1/4 cup water to a boil in a small saucepan, stirring to dissolve sugar. Cook without stirring until candy thermometer registers 240 degrees F, 4–5 minutes.
Meanwhile, using an electric mixer, beat egg whites in a medium bowl until light and frothy (be sure to keep a close eye on the sugar syrup). Beat in remaining 2 tablespoons sugar and cream of tartar.
With mixer running, gradually add hot syrup in a thin stream, allowing syrup to drizzle down side of bowl into egg whites. Beat until egg whites are tripled in volume and meringue is very fluffy, cool, and opaque white, about 12 minutes with a stand mixer and up to 20 minutes with a hand mixer. (Frosting made with a hand mixer may not be as firm as that made with a stand mixer.) Add vanilla and mix 1 minute longer. Use meringue immediately.
Fill a pastry bag fitted with large star tip halfway with prepared meringue.
Place 1 cake layer on a cake stand or platter. Spread 1/3 cup strawberry jam over, leaving a 1 inch border around edge. Spread 1/3 cup lemon cream over jam, keeping 1 inch border. Pipe a ring of meringue frosting over 1 inch border around edge. Place second cake layer atop meringue, pressing slightly to adhere. Repeat process with second cake layer, jam, lemon cream, and meringue. (Cover and chill remaining lemon cream for another use.) Place remaining layer on top. Using offset spatula, generously spread remaining meringue frosting on top layer of cake. Chill up to 4 hours.

Jam Cake with Caramel Chocolate Ganache 
Three 8-inch round cake pans, greased and bottoms lined with parchment paper circles
2 3/4 cups (13 3/4 ounces) all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1 teaspoon fine sea salt
1 1/2 cups (17 1/4 ounces) jam, preferably blackberry, raspberry, or apricot
3/4 cup buttermilk, at room temperature
3/4 cup (6 ounces) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 1/2 cups (10 1/2 ounces) sugar
4 eggs, at room temperature
1 cup (4 ounces) sliced natural almonds, toasted
Caramel Chocolate Ganache

Center an oven rack and preheat the oven to 325 degrees F.
In a large bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, and salt, then whisk the mixture to ensure that the ingredients are well distributed.
In a small bowl, stir together the jam and the buttermilk.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter and sugar together on medium-high speed until fluffy, about 5 minutes. As you make the batter, stop the mixer frequently and scrape the paddle and the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula. Blend in the eggs one at a time, adding the next one as soon as the previous one has disappeared into the batter. With the mixer on low speed, add the flour mixture in three parts, alternating with the buttermilk mixture in two parts, beginning and ending with the flour. After each addition, mix until just barely blended and stop and scrape the bowl. Stop the mixer before the last of the flour has been incorporated and complete the blending by hand with a rubber spatula to ensure you do not overbeat the batter.
Divide the batter evenly into the prepared pans (there will be approximately 1 pound 4 ounces per pan) and smooth the tops. Bake in the middle of the oven until the centers are just barely firm when lightly touched, 32 to 34 minutes. Cool the cakes on a wire rack for 30 minutes before removing them from their pans. Once removed, continue to cool the cakes on the rack, top side up, until they reach room temperature. Leave the parchment paper on until you assemble the cake.
To assemble the cake, place one of the layers, top side up, on a flat plate or a cake board. Using a thin metal spatula, spread a thin layer of caramel ganache (a bit more than 1/2 cup) on top of the cake and out to the edges of the cake. Sprinkle 2 tablespoons of almonds evenly over the ganache. Align the next cake layer, top side up, on top of the first one, and repeat with another thin layer of ganache and almonds. Place the final layer of cake on top of the cake. Frost the top heavily and the sides lightly with the remainder of the ganache. Lightly press the remaining toasted almonds on the sides of cake.
This cake is best stored and served at room temperature. In an airtight container, it keeps for up to 5 days.

Pistachio Pound Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups all-purpose flour plus more
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups sugar
5 large eggs
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2 tablespoons fresh orange juice
2 teaspoons finely grated orange zest
1 teaspoon finely grated lime zest
1 cup shelled, unsalted pistachios, coarsely chopped, divided

Arrange a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. Coat a 9x5x3 inch loaf pan with nonstick spray. Dust pan with flour; tap out excess.
Whisk 2 cups flour, salt, and baking powder in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat butter on medium speed until light and fluffy, 2-3 minutes. Add sugar; beat until well incorporated, 1-2 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend between additions. Add juices and zests; beat until well combined (mixture will look curdled), 2-3 minutes. Add dry ingredients; reduce speed to low and beat just until blended. Fold in 3/4 cup pistachios. Pour batter into prepared pan; smooth top. Sprinkle remaining 1/4 cup pistachios over.
Bake cake, rotating halfway through, until a tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 1/2 hours. Transfer to a wire rack and let cool completely in pan. Run a sharp knife around sides to loosen; unmold cake. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Arya's Snitched Tarts 
1 bottle inexpensive sweet red wine, such as a Shiraz
1 1/2 cups honey
1/2 cup red wine vinegar
1 tablespoon Poudre Forte
1/2 cup chopped dates or prunes
1/2 cup currants
1 cup fresh or dried figs, if available (if not, substitute your favorite berries), diced
Crumbled candied nuts (optional, but delicious)
1 batch Medieval Sweet Dough
Vegetable oil for frying

Bring the wine and honey to a boil, then reduce the heat and skim off the foam until the liquid is clear. Add the vinegar, poudre forte, and fruits; return the mixture to a boil, then reduce the heat to a low simmer. Keep an eye on the fruit as you proceed—do not overreduce it! The syrup should lightly coat the back of a spoon and reduce by about a third to a half.
Roll the sweet dough to about 1/4-inch thickness on a floured board, then use a circular cutter or drinking glass to cut out circles about 2 inches in diameter.
Pour a shallow layer of oil into a skillet or pan and place it over medium-high heat until hot. Working a few at a time, gently slip dough circles into the oil and fry until they are lightly browned and very crisp. Transfer the fried circles to paper towels to drain. Arrange the cakes on a serving platter, then spoon on just enough of the fruit mixture to cover each disk. Sprinkle with candied nuts. The yellowish cakes and the red topping make an interesting contrast in colors, and the wine will soften the cakes.

Red, White, and Blue Ice Cream Cake 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour plus more for dusting
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs, warmed in their shells in warm water for 5 minutes
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup sour cream
12 ounces (2 1/4 cups) fresh blueberries
1/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon water
1 teaspoon cornstarch
12 ounces (3 cups) fresh raspberries
1/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon water
1 1/2 teaspoons cornstarch
1 1/2 quarts vanilla ice cream
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy cream
1/3 cup confectioners sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 cup mixed fresh blueberries and raspberries
A 9-inch springform pan; a small offset metal spatula

Heat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Invert bottom of springform pan (to make it easier to slide cake off bottom) and lock on side. Butter pan and line bottom with a round of parchment or wax paper. Butter paper, then dust paper with additional flour, knocking out excess.
Sift together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt into a bowl.
In a separate bowl, beat together butter and sugar with an electric mixer (fitted with paddle attachment if using a stand mixer) at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, 3 to 5 minutes. Add in warmed eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in vanilla.
Reduce speed to low, then add flour mixture in 3 batches alternately with sour cream, beginning and ending with flour and mixing until batter is smooth. Spoon batter into springform pan, spreading evenly.
Bake cake until it begins to pull away from side of pan and a wooden toothpick inserted in center comes out clean, 35 to 40 minutes. Let cake cool in pan on a wire rack for 10 minutes, then carefully run a thin knife around edge of cake and remove side of pan. Invert cake onto rack, then remove bottom of pan and carefully peel off paper. Let cake cool completely.
Combine all ingredients except water and cornstarch in a 2- to 3-quart heavy saucepan and bring to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring frequently. Reduce heat and briskly simmer, uncovered, stirring occasionally, until reduced to about 1 1/4 cups, 8 to 10 minutes. Stir water into cornstarch in a small bowl, then stir into blueberry filling and gently boil, stirring, 1 minute. Transfer to a bowl and chill, uncovered, until cold.
Combine all ingredients except water and cornstarch in a 2- to 3-quart heavy saucepan and bring to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring frequently. Reduce heat and briskly simmer, uncovered, stirring occasionally, until reduced to about 1 1/4 cups, 10 to 12 minutes. Stir water into cornstarch in a small bowl, then stir into raspberry filling and gently boil, stirring, 1 minute. Force filling through a large fine-mesh sieve into a bowl, scraping bottom of sieve to release pulp into bowl. Discard solids in sieve. Chill filling, uncovered, until cold.
Cut cooled cake horizontally into 3 even layers with a long serrated knife (see Cooks' Notes for an easy method). Line 9-inch springform pan with 2 overlapping sheets of plastic wrap, letting excess hang over edge. Put bottom layer, cut side up, in pan. Spread cold blueberry filling over cake using offset spatula, leaving a 1/4-inch border around edge, then freeze until firm, about 20 minutes.
Slightly soften ice cream in microwave, then scoop half of it, preferably in thin curls that you can lay over blueberry layer, and gently spread it evenly to edge of cake. Return remaining ice cream to freezer. Put middle cake layer on top of ice cream, gently pressing it down, and spread cold raspberry filling over cake, leaving a 1/4-inch border around edge. Freeze cake until raspberry layer is firm, about 30 minutes.
Slightly soften remaining ice cream, if necessary, and spread in same manner evenly over raspberry filling to edge of cake. Put remaining cake layer on top of ice cream, cut side down, and gently press it down, then freeze cake, well wrapped in plastic, until very firm, 4 to 6 hours.
Beat heavy cream with confectioners' sugar and vanilla in a large deep bowl with an electric mixer until it just holds stiff peaks.
Remove side and bottom of springform pan and peel plastic from cake. Set cake on a serving plate that will fit in the freezer. Spread some of whipped cream in a thin layer around side and top of cake and freeze cake until cream is firm, about 30 minutes (meanwhile, keep remaining whipped cream cold in refrigerator).
Frost cake with remaining cream, leaving swirls in cream on top to help hold berries. Freeze until very firm, at least 30 minutes.
To serve, transfer cake to refrigerator to soften, 30 minutes to 1 hour, and garnish with berries.

Black Walnut Cake 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup black or English walnut pieces
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon kosher salt
2 sticks unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/3 cups buttermilk

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F, with a rack in the middle. Butter and flour a 9-inch-square cake pan.
Whisk together the flour, walnuts, baking soda, and salt in a medium bowl.
Beat together the butter and sugar with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add the eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in the vanilla. Add the flour mixture and the buttermilk alternately in batches, beginning and ending with the flour mixture and mixing until just combined.
Pour the batter into the cake pan and smooth the top. Bake until a wooden toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, 45 to 55 minutes. Cool in the pan on a rack for 1 hour. Invert the cake over a cake plate and serve.

Blackberry Financiers 
1/2 cup plus 5 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 cup sliced almonds
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1 1/2 cups plus 2 tablespoons powdered sugar; additional for dusting
5 large egg whites
2 tablespoons honey
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups fresh (or frozen, thawed) blackberries, halved
A mini muffin pan

Melt butter in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Simmer until browned bits begin to form. Continue to simmer, frequently scraping up browned bits at bottom of pan, until fragrant and dark brown but not burnt, 6-7 minutes. Scrape butter and all browned bits into a medium bowl. Let cool for 3-4 minutes.
Meanwhile, process almonds and flour in a food processor until nuts are finely ground. Transfer to a medium bowl; whisk in 1 1/2 cups plus 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. Add egg whites; mix until smooth. Fold in honey.
Fold browned butter into batter. DO AHEAD: Batter can be made 3 days ahead. Cover and chill.
Arrange a rack in middle of oven; preheat to 375 degrees F. Coat muffin cups with nonstick spray. Pour 1 generous tablespoon batter into each prepared muffin cup. Top with 3-4 blackberry halves. Bake until cakes are golden brown and just cooked through, 15-16 minutes.
Let cool in pan for 10 minutes. Remove cakes from pan. Serve warm or at room temperature. Dust with powdered sugar just before serving.

Tres Leches Cake 
Unsalted butter (for pan)
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour plus more
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
6 large egg whites
11/2 cups sugar
3 large egg yolks
2 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract, divided
1/2 cup whole milk
1 cup evaporated skim milk
1 cup heavy cream
1 cup sweetened condensed milk
1 tablespoon dark rum

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour bottom and sides of a glass 13x9 inch baking dish.
Whisk 1 1/2 cups flour, baking powder, and cinnamon in a large bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat egg whites in another large bowl until firm peaks form, 7–8 minutes. Gradually beat in sugar. Add egg yolks one at a time, beating to blend between additions. Beat in 2 tsp. vanilla. Add flour mixture in 3 additions, alternating with milk in 2 additions, beginning and ending with flour mixture. Pour batter into pan; smooth top.
Bake cake for 25 minutes. Reduce heat to 325 degrees ; continue baking until cake is golden brown and middle springs back when pressed, 20–25 minutes more. Let cake cool in pan for 15 minutes. Invert cake onto a wire rack set inside a rimmed baking sheet.
Whisk 1/2 tsp. vanilla, evaporated milk, and remaining ingredients in a medium bowl. Poke holes all over top of cake with a skewer. Slowly drizzle half of sauce over cake, letting liquid soak in before adding more. Let cake sit for 10 minutes.
Invert a platter on top of cake. Lift rack and gently invert cake onto platter. Drizzle remaining sauce over. Spoon any liquid collected on sheet over cake.

Yellow Butter Cake 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, plus more for greasing, at room temperature
2 cups sugar
3 1/2 cups cake flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 large eggs, plus 2 large egg whites, at room temperature
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1 cup whole or low-fat milk

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Generously grease and flour 2 (8-inch) cake pans.
2. In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the butter and sugar and beat on medium speed until the mixture is smooth and light in texture, about 4 minutes. While the butter is beating, sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt in a medium bowl and set aside.
3. Add the eggs and egg whites to the butter-sugar mixture, one at a time, beating well and scraping down the bowl after each addition. In a small bowl or measuring cup, combine the vanilla with the milk. In 3 additions alternate adding the sifted dry ingredients and wet ingredients to the butter-sugar mixture, mixing on low speed until just incorporated.
4. Divide the batter evenly between the 2 pans and bake until the cakes spring back when touched lightly in the center, 35 to 40 minutes.
5. Remove the cakes from the oven and let cool for 20 minutes, or until the cakes are set and the pans are cool enough to handle. Release the sides of the cakes from the pans with a narrow metal spatula or knife and invert them onto a wire rack to cool completely.

The Pink Cake 
Three 8 by 2-inch round cake pans, greased and bottoms lined with greased parchment paper circles
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1/4 cup (1 ounce) lightly packed premium unsweetened Dutch-processed cocoa
3/4 cup boiling water
3/4 cup (6 3/4 ounces) full-fat sour cream
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
2 cups (10 ounces) all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon fine sea salt
1/2 cup (4 ounces) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 cup (7 1/2 ounces) firmly packed light brown sugar
3/4 cup (5 1/4 ounces) granulated sugar
1/2 cup canola oil
3 egg yolks, at room temperature
3 eggs, at room temperature
Raspberry Buttercream

Center an oven rack and preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Put the unsweetened chocolate and the cocoa into a small bowl. Pour the boiling water over the chocolate and allow it to steep for 1 minute. Whisk the mixture together. Whisk in the sour cream and vanilla. Set aside.
Sift together the flour, baking soda, and salt in a bowl, then whisk the mixture by hand to ensure that the ingredients are well mixed.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter and both sugars together on medium-high speed until light, about 3 minutes. As you make the batter, stop the mixer frequently and scrape the paddle and the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula. On low speed, drizzle the oil into the mixture until blended. Turn the mixer up to medium-high speed and beat until the batter is fluffy, about 3 more minutes. Blend in the eggs and egg yolks one at a time, adding the next one as soon as the previous one has disappeared into the batter. With the mixer on low speed, add the flour mixture in three parts, alternating with the chocolate mixture in two parts, beginning and ending with the flour. After each addition, mix until just barely blended and stop and scrape the bowl. Stop the mixer before the last of the flour has been incorporated and complete the blending by hand with a rubber spatula to ensure you do not overbeat the batter.
Divide the thick batter equally among the prepared pans (there will be approximately 1 pound 2 ounces per pan). Smooth the tops and tap the pans on the counter to settle the batter and eliminate any large air bubbles. Bake in the middle of the oven until the centers spring back when lightly touched, 22 to 25 minutes. Cool the cakes in their pans on a wire rack for 30 minutes. Flip the cakes out of the pans, leaving on the parchment paper until you assemble the cake. Let them continue to cool on the rack, top sides up, until they reach room temperature.
To assemble the cake, lay one of the cakes top side up on a cake plate. Using a metal spatula, frost the top with 3/4 cup of buttercream, spreading it out to the edge of the cake (the filling will be about 1/4 inch thick). Stack the second cake top side up on top of the frosted cake and spread another 3/4 cup of buttercream on top of it. Stack the last layer of cake top side up on top. Look for any frosting that may have oozed out beween the layers and spread it along the sides of the cake. Apply a thin layer of frosting all over the cake to create a  inchcrumb coat. inch Place the cake in the refrigerator until the frosting is firm, about 10 minutes. Take it out and frost the cake with the remaining buttercream, using your spatula to make decorative swirls.
Store the cake in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 3 days.

Sugar Cookies 
Flourless cooking spray, for greasing
2 cups (4 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into small cubes, at room temperature
3 cups sugar
3 cups cake flour
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 large egg, plus 1 large egg yolk, at room temperature
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon lemon juice
1 teaspoon lemon zest
Sanding sugar, for garnishing, as needed

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly spray cookie sheets with cooking spray or line them with parchment paper. In a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment, beat together the butter and sugar until light in texture and smooth, about 2 minutes. While that mixture is beating, sift the flours, salt, and baking soda into a bowl and set aside.
2. In a small bowl, whisk together the egg, egg yolk, vanilla, lemon juice, and lemon zest. Add this to the butter-sugar mixture and blend until incorporated. Scrape down the bowl as necessary to blend evenly. With the mixer on low or using a wooden spoon, stir in the sifted dry ingredients.
3. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface and divide into two even pieces. Flatten each piece to about 1 inch thick and wrap in plastic wrap. Refrigerate until chilled and firm, at least 2 hours.
4. Gently knead the chilled dough to make it more pliable. Lightly flour a work surface and rolling pin and, rotating the dough consistently and working with even pressure, roll out to about an 1/8-inch thickness. Cut the dough into the desired shape and transfer to the prepared baking sheets. Garnish the cookies with sanding sugar.
5. Bake the cookies in batches until they have a light golden-brown edge with a pale-blond center, about 10 minutes. Transfer to wire racks and let cool completely.

Molten Chocolate Cake 
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into small pieces, plus more for greasing
3/4 cup sugar, plus more for ramekins
6 large eggs plus 6 large egg yolks
5 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
5 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
Confectioners' sugar (optional)

1. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Liberally grease the ramekins with softened butter and dredge the inside with sugar. Line the prepared ramekins on a baking sheet and set aside.
2. In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, beat the eggs, egg yolks, and 3/4 cup sugar on medium-high speed until very pale and nearly tripled in volume (the foam will hold a  inchribbon inch when drizzled over itself), about 10 minutes.
3. While the eggs are whipping, in a bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water, melt the chopped bittersweet and unsweetened chocolates with 1 1/4 cup butter. Keep warm.
4. Transfer the egg foam to a large mixing bowl and add the melted chocolate. Gently fold until almost completely combined. Sprinkle the flour over the mixture and continue folding just until the flour is incorporated and the batter is blended.
5. Divide the batter among the prepared ramekins, filling them almost to the top. Bake until the edges are set and the middle of the cake is starting to dry and sink slightly, about 10 minutes (take care not to overbake the cakes or the center will not be molten). Using a small sharp knife, loosen the edges of the cakes then invert each one onto a serving plate. Dust with confectioners' sugar, if desired, and serve warm.

Chocolate Chunk Cookies 
Flourless cooking spray, for greasing
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into small cubes, at room temperature
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs, at room temperature
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 cups bittersweet chocolate chunks or chips

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly spray cookie sheets with cooking spray or line them with parchment paper. In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat together the sugars and butter on medium speed until light in texture and smooth, about 2 minutes. While that mixture is beating, sift the flour, baking soda, and salt into a bowl and set aside.
2. Add the eggs, one at a time, to the sugar-butter mixture, followed by the vanilla, and blend until incorporated. With the mixer on low or using a wooden spoon, stir in the sifted dry ingredients. Scrape down the bowl as needed to blend evenly. Stir in the chocolate chunks.
3. Using 2 spoons, drop the dough onto the prepared baking sheets, about 2 inches apart. If desired, slightly flatten the cookies before baking.
4. Bake the cookies in batches, rotating the pans halfway through baking, until they are cracked on top but still slightly moist, 12 to 15 minutes. Transfer the cookies to wire racks and let cool completely.

Walnut Cake 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
6 tablespoons raw sugar, divided
7 cups walnut halves
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 1/2 cups almond flour or almond meal
3/4 cup granulated sugar
6 large eggs
3/4 cup heavy cream
1/2 cup plain whole-milk yogurt
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
Whipped cream
Ingredient info: Almond flour is available at some supermarkets and at natural foods stores and specialty markets.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 13x9x2 inch metal or glass baking dish; sprinkle bottom evenly with 3 tablespoons raw sugar. Set aside.
Pulse walnuts in a food processor until coarsely chopped. Set 2 cups aside. Add all-purpose flour to processor and pulse until walnuts are very finely ground, 1-2 minutes. Add almond flour; pulse to blend. Set aside.
Using an electric mixer, beat 1 cup butter and granulated sugar in a large bowl until light and fluffy, 2-3 minutes. Add eggs, cream, yogurt, and salt. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean (reserve bean for another use). Beat until well combined, 1-2 minutes. Add ground-walnut mixture and beat just to blend. Gently fold in chopped walnuts, being careful not to overmix. Pour batter into prepared dish; smooth top. Sprinkle with remaining 3 tablespoons raw sugar.
Bake until cooked through and a tester inserted into center comes out clean, 50-55 minutes. Let cool in pan on a wire rack. Serve with whipped cream. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Cover and chill. Cake is best served cold.

Caramel Cheesecake Bites 
Buttery Sugar Cookie dough recipe
20 ounces jarred or canned dulce de leche at room temperature (see Cooks' Notes)
2 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
2/3 cup sugar
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
A 13- by 9-inch baking pan; small offset metal spatula (optional but so helpful); disposable pastry bag (optional)

Heat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Line a 13- by 9-inch inch baking pan with aluminum foil, leaving an overhang at both ends, and lightly butter.
Make Buttery Sugar Cookie dough as directed, but press dough evenly into bottom of pan. Use the flat bottom of a metal cup measure or a glass to compact and press the dough into as even a layer as possible.
Bake until golden, 25 to 30 minutes, then cool completely in pan on a rack, and keep oven on.
Stir dulce de leche well, then spread 1 1/4 cups of it—there will be some left over—evenly over cookie base with offset spatula and quick-chill in freezer or chill in refrigerator until cold.
Slowly beat cream cheese and sugar on medium speed with an electric mixer (fitted with paddle attachment if using a stand mixer) until creamy, about 2 minutes. Add eggs, one at a time, mixing well on medium-low speed after each addition, then mix in vanilla.
Spoon cream cheese mixture over dulce de leche. Bake until cheesecake is puffed and edges are golden, 40 to 45 minutes.
Cool completely in pan on a rack, then chill until cold, about 3 hours.
With aid of foil overhang, lift cheesecake confection from pan.
Dip a long sharp knife in a tall glass of hot water and quickly wipe it off, then trim edges of confection (save scraps for snacking). Continuing to dip knife in hot water and wiping it off before every cut, cut cheesecake lengthwise into 8 strips, then crosswise into 4 sections, to form 32 finger-shaped bites.
Just before serving, if desired, arrange bites on a large rack set over a large rimmed baking sheet, spacing them apart. Put about 2/3 cup dulce de leche in disposable pastry bag, then snip off a tiny opening. Drizzle the dulce de leche in a diagonal pattern over the bites, letting it drape down the sides.

Carrot Cake 
1 pound carrots (6 or 7 large carrots), peeled
2 1/2 cups flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar
1/2 cup packed dark brown sugar
1 1/4 cups vegetable oil
4 eggs, lightly beaten

1 Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease two 9-inch round pans or one 9 by 13-inch pan or with cooking spray or oil. In addition, you can also place a cut-out parchment circle on the bottom of the pan.
2 Grate the carrots with a grater (the old-school way!) or a food processor. I prefer medium-grated carrots—not too big, not too fine.
3 In a large bowl, mix together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, salt, confectioner's sugar, and brown sugar. Stir in the oil and eggs, then the carrots.
4 Pour the batter into the prepared pan and bake for 30 to 40 minutes, or until a toothpick comes out clean.
5 Cool completely, then frost cream cheese frosting.

Ginger Spice Cake with Dried Cherries 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour plus more for pan
1 cup dried tart cherries (about 6 ounces), finely chopped
1/2 cup finely chopped crystallized ginger
1 tablespoon finely grated peeled ginger
1 tablespoon Dijon mustard
1 cup hot espresso or very strong coffee
1 tablespoon ground ginger
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 teaspoon ground allspice
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1/2 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
3 large eggs
1 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
Luscious Chocolate Icing (optional)
A 6-8-cup Bundt pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter Bundt pan. Dust pan with flour, tapping out excess. Combine cherries, crystallized ginger, grated ginger, and Dijon mustard in a medium bowl. Pour espresso over cherry mixture and set aside. Whisk 2 1/2 cups flour, ground ginger, baking soda, salt, allspice, cinnamon, and pepper in a large bowl.
Using an electric mixer on medium speed, beat 1/2 cup butter in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add brown sugar and beat for 2 minutes. Beat in eggs one at a time, then beat in molasses.
Strain cherry mixture into a small bowl, reserving soaking liquid. Add dry ingredients to butter mixture in 3 additions, alternately with soaking liquid in 2 additions, beating to blend between additions. Fold in drained cherry mixture. Scrape batter into prepared pan.
Bake until top of cake springs back when lightly pressed in the middle, about 1 hour. Let cool in pan on a wire rack. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
Remove cake from pan. Spoon Luscious Chocolate Icing over cake, if using, allowing it to drip down sides. Cut cake into wedges to serve.

Old-Fashioned Graham Crackers with Turbinado Sugar 
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 cup whole wheat flour
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon table salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup turbinado sugar

1. In a medium bowl, whisk together the flours, cinnamon, baking soda, and salt.
2. In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat together the butter, granulated sugar, and brown sugar on medium speed until the mixture is light yellow and fluffy, about 3 minutes. With the mixer on low speed, add a third of the flour mixture and 1/4 cup of water. Mix for 30 seconds. Repeat this step once, then add the remaining flour mixture and mix just to combine. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured surface and knead by hand for about 10 seconds. Divide the dough in half. Cover one half with plastic wrap and set it aside.
3. Place a sheet of parchment paper on a work surface, put the dough on the parchment, and top with a second sheet of parchment. Roll the dough out to about 1/8-inch thickness. Repeat with the second half of the dough. Chill the dough for about 30 minutes.
4. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
5. Remove the dough from the refrigerator, peel off both sheets of parchment, and put the dough on a cutting board. Using a square cookie cutter, cut out the dough, rerolling the scraps twice. Put the cookies on a parchment paper-lined baking sheet. Sprinkle each cookie with a pinch of turbinado sugar.
6. Bake, rotating the sheet halfway through, for 20 minutes, or until the cookies are a dark golden color around the edges. Let cool for 10 minutes, then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely.

Red Velvet Whoopie Pies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons unsweetened (natural) cocoa powder (not Dutch process)
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon distilled white vinegar
2/3 cup well-shaken buttermilk
1 (1-ounce) bottle red food coloring (2 tablespoons)
8 ounces cream cheese, softened
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 cups confectioners' sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with racks in upper and lower third. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper.
Whisk together flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt in a bowl.
Beat butter, oil, and sugar with an electric mixer until combined well, about 2 minutes. Beat in egg, vanilla, and vinegar.
Reduce speed to low and alternately mix in flour and buttermilk in batches, beginning and ending with the flour until combined.
Add the red food coloring and mix on low speed until thoroughly combined.
Spoon 2 tablespoon mounds of batter 2-inches apart on lined baking sheets.
Bake, switching positions of baking sheets halfway through baking, until rounds are puffed and set, 8 to 10 minutes.
Slide parchment with rounds onto wire racks to cool completely.
Beat together cream cheese, butter, lemon juice, vanilla, salt, and sugar until creamy, 1 to 2 minutes. Spread about 2 tablespoons of filling on flat-side of half the rounds; top with remaining rounds, flat side down, to form whoopie pies.

Buttery Sugar Cookies 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 large egg
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup coarse sanding sugar (see Cooks' Note)
Wax paper; 2 large baking sheets; parchment paper

Beat together butter, sugar, and salt in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes in a stand mixer (preferably fitted with paddle attachment) or 6 with a handheld. Beat in egg and vanilla. Reduce speed to low, then mix in flour.
Halve dough and form each half into a disk, then wrap in wax paper. Put each disk in a resealable plastic bag and chill until firm enough to roll into balls, about 1 hour.
Heat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Line baking sheets with parchment paper.
While oven heats, work with 1 piece of dough (keep remaining dough chilled). Roll 1 level tablespoon of dough into a ball, then roll in coarse sugar in a shallow bowl to coat completely. (If dough becomes too soft to roll easily into balls, quick-chill in the freezer or chill in the refrigerator.)
Place balls 2 inches apart on a lined baking sheet. With the flat bottom of a glass, flatten balls into 2-inch rounds.
Bake cookies, one sheet at time, until bottoms are golden, 12 to 15 minutes total. Cool on sheets 2 minutes, then transfer with a metal spatula to racks to cool completely. Make more cookies with remaining dough on cooled baking sheets.

Key Lime Meringue Cake 
2 3/4 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring) plus more for pans
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened, plus more for pans
1 1/2 cups sugar
4 large eggs, warmed in shell in a bowl of warm water 5 minutes
1 tablespoon grated Key lime or lime zest
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1 cup whole milk
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup cornstarch
Pinch of salt
3/4 cup water
3/4 cup fresh Key lime or lime juice
2 large eggs
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into tablespoons
2 teaspoons grated Key lime or lime zest
2 large egg whites
3/4 cup confectioners' sugar
2/3 cup light corn syrup
2 tablespoons water
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 teaspoon fresh Key lime or lime juice
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 (9- by 2-inch) round cake pans; a powerful handheld electric mixer or a stand mixer

Heat oven to 350 degrees F. with rack in middle. Butter cake pans, then line bottoms with rounds of parchment. Dust pans with additional flour, knocking out excess.
Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together into a bowl.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer (or a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment) at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in zest and vanilla and continue beating until light and fluffy, 3 to 5 minutes more. At low speed, add flour mixture in 3 batches alternately with milk, beginning and ending with the flour mixture and mixing until batter is just smooth.
Divide batter between cake pans, spreading it evenly. Bake until a wooden toothpick inserted in the center of each cake comes out clean and cakes begin to pull away from sides of pans, 20 to 25 minutes.
Cool for 15 minutes in pans on racks. Run a thin knife around sides of pans, invert cake layers onto racks, and cool completely.
Whisk together sugar, cornstarch, and salt in a heavy 2-quart saucepan, then whisk in 3/4 cup water and juice until smooth. Whisk together eggs in a medium heat-proof bowl until well combined.
Bring juice mixture to a boil over medium heat, stirring with whisk, then reduce heat and continue to cook at a slow boil, stirring with whisk, 1 minute (mixture will be thick). Remove pan from heat.
Add half of hot juice mixture to eggs in a slow stream, stirring with whisk. Stir egg mixture into juice in pan and cook over medium-low heat, stirring, just until it reaches a simmer. Remove pan from heat and add butter and zest, stirring until butter is melted.
Cover filling with a buttered round of wax paper or parchment paper and chill until cold, about 1 hour.
Combine frosting ingredients in a large bowl with electric mixer (or stand mixer fitted with the whip attachment). Beat at high speed until frosting is thick and fluffy, 3 to 5 minutes.
Halve each cake horizontally with a long serrated knife. Put 1 layer on a cake stand or a large plate and spread with one-third of filling (about 2/3 cup).
Stack remaining cake layers using half of remaining filling between each layer.
Spread top and side of cake generously with frosting.

Chocolate Sponge Cake 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, room temperature
1/4 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder plus more for pan
1/4 cup cake flour
4 large eggs, room temperature
1/2 cup plus 6 teaspoons sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup heavy cream
1 cup semi sweet or bittersweet chocolate chips (do not exceed 61% cacao)

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Line the bottom of a 13x9x2 inch metal baking pan with parchment paper. Butter paper and sides of pan; dust with cocoa powder, tapping out excess. Sift flour and remaining 1/4 cup cocoa powder through a fine-mesh sieve into a small bowl. Repeat sifting 2 more times. Set flour mixture aside. Crack 2 eggs into a large deep bowl. Separate remaining 2 eggs, adding yolks to bowl with whole eggs and placing whites in a medium deep bowl. Set whites aside.
Using an electric mixer, beat whole eggs and yolks on low speed for 1 minute. Increase speed to medium; gradually add 1/2 cup sugar. Beat until mixture is thick and pale, about 3 minutes. Beat in vanilla.
Using clean, dry beaters, beat egg whites until foamy. Sprinkle 1 teaspoon sugar over. Continue to beat until soft peaks form, about 1 minute. Sprinkle remaining 5 teaspoons sugar over and beat until meringue is thick and glossy, about 30 seconds.
Using a rubber spatula, fold half of meringue into egg mixture. Sift half of dry ingredients over batter and fold until just blended. Repeat with remaining meringue and dry ingredients.
Scrape batter into prepared pan, spreading evenly to edges. Bake until cake springs back when pressed gently with your fingertips, 10-12 minutes.
Let cake cool in pan on a wire rack. Run a knife around sides of pan to release cake.
Place a cutting board on top of pan. Invert cake onto board; remove pan. Carefully peel away parchment. Using a serrated knife, trim edges to create an even layer.
Bring cream to a simmer in a small saucepan over medium-low heat. Remove from heat; add chocolate chips and stir until icing is smooth and glossy. Let cool to thicken slightly, about 15 minutes.
Using an offset spatula, spread half of icing down the middle of the cake; smooth evenly to the edges. Cut cake crosswise into 3 pieces. Stack pieces to make 3 layers. Spread remaining icing on sides of cake. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Chocolate-Peanut Butter Fun Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup finely chopped semisweet or bittersweet chocolate (3 1/2 ounces)
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup egg whites (from about 2 large eggs)
1 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup creamy peanut butter
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/4 inch cubes
Kosher salt
1/4 cup chopped semisweet or bittersweet chocolate (about 1 3/4 ounces)
1/4 cup chopped unsalted, dry roasted pinenuts
An 8x8x2 inch cake pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat bottom and sides of pan with nonstick spray; line bottom of pan with parchment paper. Whisk flour and next 4 ingredients in a large bowl. Add oil, vanilla, and 1 1/4 cups water; whisk until smooth. Fold in chopped chocolate. Scrape into prepared pan; smooth top. Bake until a tester comes out clean when inserted into center, 35-40 minutes. Let cool completely in pan on a wire rack.
Combine sugar and egg whites in a medium metal bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water. Whisk constantly until sugar dissolves and mixture is hot to the touch, 3-4 minutes. Remove from heat; using an electric mixer, beat on high speed until cool and thick, 5-6 minutes. Beat in vanilla, then peanut butter. With mixer running, add butter a few pieces at a time, beating to blend between additions. Season with salt.
Run a thin knife around pan to release cake. Invert cake onto a serving plate. Spread peanut butter buttercream over top. Garnish with chopped chocolate and peanuts. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
Cut into 2 inch squares.

Parmesan Shortbread with Fennel and Sea Salt 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
2 cups all-purpose flour plus more
1 cup finely grated Parmesan (about 2 ounces)
1 tablespoon fennel seeds
1 teaspoon Maldon sea salt or other coarse salt
2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil

Using an electric mixer, beat butter in a medium bowl on low speed until smooth, 1-2 minutes. Add powdered sugar, pepper, and kosher salt. Reduce speed to medium and beat, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl, until light and fluffy, 4-5 minutes. Add flour and cheese. Reduce mixer speed to low and beat mixture just until dough comes together.
Wrap dough in plastic and flatten into a rectangle. Chill until firm, at least 2 hours. DO AHEAD: Dough can be made 5 days ahead. Keep chilled. Let stand at room temperature for 30 minutes before continuing.
Place fennel seeds in a resealable plastic freezer bag. Coarsely crush with a rolling pin or the bottom of a skillet. Alternatively, pulse in a spice mill until coarsely crushed. Transfer to a small bowl; stir in sea salt. Set fennel salt aside.
Arrange a rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Remove plastic wrap from dough. Roll out dough on a lightly floured surface to a 10x8 inch rectangle about 1/4 inch thick. Cut in thirds crosswise, then cut each third crosswise into 6 rectangles. Arrange cookies on prepared baking sheet, spacing 1 inch apart. Brush cookies generously with oil, then sprinkle with fennel salt.
Bake, rotating sheet halfway through, until cookies are golden brown (flecks of cheese will be slightly darker), 20-24 minutes. Let cool on sheets for at least 10 minutes. Serve warm or at room temperature. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Rhubarb-Mascarpone Mousse Cake 
1 cup all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 stick (4 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
1 large egg, at room temperature 30 minutes
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/3 cup whole milk
1/2 cup strawberry or strawberry-rhubarb jam
2 pounds rhubarb, cut into 1-inch pieces (8 cups)
1 1/2 cups sugar, divided
1/2 cup water, divided
3 teaspoons unflavored gelatin (less than 2 packages)
1 cup (8 ounces) mascarpone
3/4 cup chilled heavy cream
1 teaspoon vanilla
Vegetable oil for greasing pan
1 1/2 teaspoons unflavored gelatin
3 tablespoons water
1 cup rhubarb syrup (see below)
a few small strawberries, such as tri-star or wild strawberries with their leaves (optional)
1 (9-inch) round cake pan; 1 (10-inch) round spring-form pan with removable bottom

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and place rack in center.
Butter 9-inch cake pan and line bottom with a round of parchment.
Butter paper, then dust pan with flour, knocking out excess.
Sift together flour, baking powder, and salt into a bowl.
Beat butter and sugar together at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes.
Beat in egg and vanilla until fluffy and combined well, about 2 minutes.
Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture and milk alternately in 3 batches, beginning and ending with flour. Mix until batter is just combined. Do not overmix.
Spread batter evenly in pan and bake until cake begins to pull away from sides of pan and a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes (cake will still be pale in color, not golden brown).
Cool for 10 minutes in pan on a rack, then invert onto rack and reinvert to cool completely right side up.
Combine rhubarb, 1 1/4 cups sugar, and 1/4 cup water in a large heavy saucepan and cook over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally, until rhubarb releases enough juice to almost cover rhubarb, 5 to 8 minutes.
Reduce heat and simmer mixture, stirring occasionally, until rhubarb falls apart and is reduced to about 4 cups, 25 to 30 minutes. Remove from heat.
Pour mixture into a large fine-mesh sieve set over a bowl and collect 1 cup syrup and set aside. Transfer rhubarb pulp to another bowl.
Soften gelatin in remaining 1/4 cup water 1 minute, then stir into hot rhubarb mixture until dissolved.
Set bowl inside a larger bowl of ice water and stir rhubarb mixture until cooled to room temperature (do not let set on ice).
Beat together mascarpone, heavy cream, and vanilla with remaining 1/4 cup sugar until it just holds stiff peaks.
Fold cooled rhubarb mixture into mascarpone mixture.
Carefully halve cooled cake horizontally, then spread jam on bottom half and reassemble.
Invert bottom of spring-form pan (to make it easier to slide cake off bottom), then lock on side. Lightly oil bottom and sides of pan with some vegetable oil.
Arrange cake in center of spring-form pan. Spoon rhubarb mousse into pan over cake. Smooth top. Rap pan on counter twice to release any air bubbles and chill cake, uncovered, until mousse is set, at least 2 hours.
Sprinkle gelatin over water in a small heavy saucepan to soften, 1 minute. Heat gelatin over low heat until it has dissolved. Remove from heat then stir in reserved rhubarb syrup.
Pour glaze over chilled mousse, tilting pan slightly to cover it completely in an even layer. Chill, uncovered, until glaze is set, at least 1 hour.
Let cake stand at room temperature 30 minutes to soften slightly. Wrap a kitchen towel dampened in hot water around the side of the pan for about 15 seconds. Run the tip of a thin knife around the edge of the pan, then gently unlock and remove sides of spring-form pan.

Coconut Southern Comfort Layer Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 3/4 cups cake flour plus more for pans
2 1/2 cups unsweetened shredded coconut (not reduced-fat)
1 tablespoon baking powder
2 teaspoons kosher salt
2 3/4 cups sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
5 large eggs
1/2 cup coconut oil, warmed to melt
1 cup buttermilk
4 cups unsweetened coconut chips
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 tablespoons plus 1/4 cup Southern Comfort
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
5 cups powdered sugar
Ingredient info: Unsweetened shredded coconut, coconut oil, and unsweetened coconut chips can be found at some supermarkets and at natural foods stores.

Arrange racks in top and bottom thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Coat cake pans with nonstick spray; dust with flour. Whisk 2 3/4 cups flour and next 3 ingredients in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat sugar and butter at medium speed, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl, until smooth, 3-4 minutes. Add eggs one at a time, beating to blend between additions. Beat until light and fluffy, 2-3 minutes. Gradually beat in oil. Beat in dry ingredients at low speed in 3 additions, alternating with buttermilk in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Divide among four 9 inch cake pans (about 2 generous cups batter per pan); smooth tops with a spatula.
Bake until a tester inserted into center of cakes comes out clean, 22-27 minutes. Transfer pans to wire racks; let cool in pans for 5 minutes. Invert cakes onto racks, remove pans, and let cakes cool completely.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place coconut chips in a single layer on a rimmed baking sheet lined with parchment paper. Toast until some of the chips are golden brown (some will remain white), 5-7 minutes; let cool completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
Using an electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter on high speed, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl, until smooth and creamy, 2-3 minutes. Add 1 1/2 tablespoons Southern Comfort and salt; beat to blend, about 1 minute longer. Add sugar; beat on low speed to blend. Increase speed to high; beat until fluffy, 5-6 minutes.
Using a long serrated knife, cut each cake in half horizontally. Place 1 layer, cut side up, on a cake stand or plate. Lightly brush with about 1/2 tablespoon of Southern Comfort. Spread 1/2 cup frosting over. Repeat with remaining 7 layers, Southern Comfort, and frosting. Chill cake for 30 minutes. Leave remaining frosting at room temperature.
Cover sides of chilled cake with frosting. Cover cake loosely with foil and chill overnight. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled. Let cake stand at room temperature for at least 30 minutes.
Gently pat handfuls of toasted coconut chips over sides and top of cake and serve.

Chocolate-Oatmeal Moon Pies 
1 1/4 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
2 1/4 cups old-fashioned oats
1 cup dried tart cherries, chopped
1 cup pecans, chopped
3/4 cup semisweet or bittersweet chocolate (4 ounces), chopped into chocolate chip-size chunks
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups (packed) dark brown sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 7-ounce jars marshmallow creme
1/2 cup semisweet or bittersweet chocolate (2 1/2 ounces), chopped
1 tablespoon honey
1/2 cup heavy cream

Arrange racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 3 baking sheets with parchment paper. Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a medium bowl. Combine oats, cherries, pecans, and chocolate in a large bowl.
Using an electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in another large bowl, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl, until smooth, about 2 minutes. Add egg and vanilla and beat to blend. Scrape down sides of bowl. With machine running at low speed, gradually add flour mixture; beat just to blend. Stir in oat mixture with a wooden spoon just to blend.
Using a 1-ounce ice cream scoop or scooping out 2 level tablespoonfuls of dough, measure dough into 36 portions. Divide among baking sheets. Using your hands, gently press down on each dough ball until 1/2 inch thick.
Bake cookies for 12 minutes. Rotate sheets front to back and top to bottom; continue baking until cookies are golden brown and edges have begun to set but centers are still soft (cookies will appear underdone and shiny in centers), 7-8 minutes longer. Do not overbake. Let cookies cool on baking sheets. DO AHEAD: Cookies can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
Spread 1 tablespoon marshmallow creme on bottom of 18 cookies. Sandwich with remaining cookies.
Place chocolate and honey in a medium bowl. Bring cream just to a boil in a small saucepan. Pour over chocolate and honey; let stand for 1 minute; stir until melted and smooth. Drizzle over cookies or serve alongside sandwich cookies for dipping.

Rich Chocolate Cake with Salty Dulce de Leche & Hazelnut Brittle 
1 cup freshly brewed hot coffee
1/2 cup Dutch-processed cocoa powder
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1/2 cup plain whole-milk yogurt
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 1/4 cups granulated sugar
2 eggs
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon table salt
Hazelnut Brittle
1/2 cup dulce de leche
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Prepare a 10-inch round cake pan by greasing it with cooking spray and then lining the bottom with parchment paper.
2. To make the cake, pour the hot coffee into a medium bowl and stir in the cocoa powder until it dissolves. Stir in the brown sugar, followed by the yogurt and the vanilla. Stir thoroughly to ensure that all of the ingredients are incorporated.
3. In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the butter and granulated sugar on medium speed until light-yellow and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Scrape down the sides of the bowl. Add the eggs and mix for 2 minutes, scraping down the bowl as needed.
4. In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, baking soda, and salt. With the mixer running on low speed, mix in a third of the flour mixture and half of the coffee mixture. Scrape down the bowl. Add another third of the flour mixture and all the remaining coffee mixture. Remove the bowl from the mixer and, using a rubber spatula, fold in the remaining flour mixture until all of the ingredients are fully incorporated. Pour the batter into the prepared cake pan.
5. Bake for 25 minutes. Rotate the pan in the oven and bake for 20 more minutes, or until a cake tester inserted in the center of the cake comes out clean. Remove the pan from the oven and let the cake cool in the pan for 20 minutes. Then turn the cake out onto a clean plate, remove the parchment, and turn the cake back over onto a wire rack. Let the cake cool completely.
6. In a food processor, pulse the brittle pieces 3 to 4 times until the brittle is powdery.
7. Put the cooled cake on a serving dish. In a microwave-safe dish, heat the dulce de leche on high power for 30 seconds, or until it is just liquid. Spoon the dulce de leche over the cake, and then sprinkle the kosher salt over the dulce de leche. Sprinkle about 1/2 cup of the ground brittle around the outer edge of the cake as a delicious decoration.

Sorghum Spice Cake 
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons (2 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, divided, plus more for pan
2 cups plus 1/4 cup all-purpose flour, divided, plus more for pan
1 1/4 cups sugar, divided
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 cup sorghum syrup
2 large eggs
1 cup buttermilk
Rum raisin ice cream
A 9 inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4 inch-high sides

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour springform pan. Combine 1/4 cup flour, 1/4 cup sugar, and 2 tablespoons butter in a small bowl. Using your fingertips, rub together until mixture is crumbly; set topping aside. Sift remaining 2 cups flour, baking soda, and next 5 ingredients into a large bowl. Using an electric mixer at low speed, beat 1 cup butter, 1 cup sugar, and sorghum in another large bowl, occasionally scraping down sides, until smooth, 2-3 minutes. Add eggs; beat until light and fluffy, 3-4 minutes. Beat in flour mixture in 3 additions, alternating with buttermilk in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Pour batter into prepared pan.
Bake cake until top looks just set, about 40 minutes.
Immediately sprinkle topping over cake; bake until a tester comes out clean when inserted into center, 25-30 minutes longer. Transfer to a wire rack and let cake cool in pan. Remove pan sides.
Cut into wedges; serve with ice cream.

Marmalade Cake 
2 navel oranges, scrubbed
1 cup sugar
1 whole star anise
1/2 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
3/4 cup dried currants
1/2 cup Grand Marnier or other orange-flavored liqueur
1 1/2 cups cake flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
3/4 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1/2 cup fresh orange juice
3 tablespoons (heaping) orange marmalade
2 tablespoons finely grated orange zest
2 large eggs
1/4 cup whole milk or half-and-half
A 9 inch-diameter springform pan

Using a sharp knife, cut all rind and white pith from oranges in wide strips. Trim off any flesh still clinging to the white pith. Place peel in a small heavy saucepan. Add cold water to cover; bring to a boil. Drain. Repeat with cold water. Drain; reserve peel.
Combine sugar and 2 cups water in same saucepan. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Add the orange peel, star anise, and vanilla bean. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat to low and simmer, partially covered and stirring occasionally, until peel is soft and syrup has thickened, 50-60 minutes. Let cool slightly. Transfer peel to a cutting board and thinly slice. Return peel to syrup. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 week ahead. Place in a jar, cover, and chill.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter pan. Line with a parchment-paper round; butter paper. Bring currants and Grand Marnier to a simmer in a small saucepan over medium heat. Remove from heat and let steep.
Meanwhile, sift flour, baking powder, and salt into a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat 10 tablespoons butter and sugar in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in orange juice, marmalade, and orange zest. Beat in eggs one at a time, blending well between additions (mixture may look curdled).
Add dry ingredients in 3 additions and milk in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients and beating to blend between additions. Beat in any Grand Marnier not absorbed by the currants. Fold in currants. Pour batter into prepared pan; smooth the top.
Bake cake until a tester inserted into the center comes out clean and the top is golden, 40-45 minutes. Let cool in pan on a wire rack. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
Remove pan sides from cake. Invert onto a serving plate. Arrange candied orange peel over and brush with some of syrup, if desired.

Caramel Madness 
1/2 cup sweetened coconut
24 reduced-fat Nilla wafers
Parchment paper
12 chewy caramels
1/4 cup skim milk
1 ounce dark or semisweet chocolate chips (3 tablespoons)

Heat oven to 300 degrees F. On a baking sheet, toast coconut, turning every 5 minutes, until golden, 15 to 20 minutes. Let cool. Cover a cookie sheet with parchment; set wafers on top. In a bowl, microwave caramels and milk on high, stirring often, until smooth, 2 to 3 minutes. With a spatula, fold coconut into caramel mixture. Spread 1 tablespoon mixture onto each wafer. Let cookies cool, 5 minutes. Microwave chocolate, stirring often, until melted, 1 to 2 minutes. Transfer into a small resealable bag; snip off corner. Drizzle cookies with chocolate; let cool.

Red Fife and Pumpkin Seed Cookies 
1 cup all-purpose flour
2 cups Anson Mills red fife flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 teaspoons salt
Grated zest of 1 lemon
8 ounces (2 sticks) unsalted butter, softened
2 cups granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup pumpkin seeds
Confectioners' sugar for sprinkling

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Line four half-sheet pans with parchment paper.
Combine the all-purpose flour, red fife flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and lemon zest in a medium bowl, and set aside.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter and sugar. Combine the eggs with the vanilla and add slowly to the creamed batter. With a silicone spatula, fold in the flour mixture and mix just until combined.
Using a tablespoon-size ice-cream scoop, drop the batter onto the prepared pans, spacing the cookies 2 inches apart. (They are very buttery and will run if placed too closely together.) Press the pumpkin seeds onto the cookies. Bake for 5 minutes. Turn the pans in the oven and bake for 5 more minutes. Cool completely on wire racks. Sprinkle confectioners' sugar on top of the cooled cookies.

Bacon Banana Cookies 
2 1/2 cups sifted all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 bananas, mashed (about 1 1/3 cups)
1/2 pound bacon, cooked crisp, chopped

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper and set aside.
In a large mixing bowl, sift together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, 1/2 teaspoon of the cinnamon, and the salt.
In a medium mixing bowl, use a hand mixer to cream together the butter and 1 cup of the sugar. Beat in the eggs, one at a time, until they are fully incorporated. Beat in the vanilla. Add the butter mixture to the flour mixture, then stir in the mashed bananas, beating well after each addition. Fold in the bacon.
Stir together the remaining 1/4 cup sugar and the remaining cinnamon.
Drop the dough by heaping tablespoons onto the prepared baking sheet 1 inch apart. Sprinkle generously with the cinnamon-sugar and bake for 10 to 12 minutes, until slightly browned. Allow the cookies to cool completely before storing in an airtight container. Cookies will keep for 5 to 7 days.

Lamington Bars 
4 large eggs
1 cup granulated sugar
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
5 1/2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/3 cup corn syrup
3 tablespoons milk
8 ounces milk chocolate, coarsely chopped
1 cup heavy cream
One 9-ounce jar of raspberry jam
1/2 pound unsweetened shredded coconut

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Line a half-sheet pan with parchment paper.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, beat the eggs and sugar on high speed until light and foamy, about 5 minutes.
In another bowl, sift the flour and baking powder together.
Melt the butter in a small saucepan, and add the corn syrup.
Remove the egg mixture from the mixer. With a silicone spatula, fold in the flour mixture. Add the milk, and then the butter mixture, just until combined. Spread the batter onto the prepared pan. Bake for 8 minutes. Cool completely on a wire rack
Place the chocolate in a heatproof bowl. Heat the cream over a medium heat, just until boiling. Pour the hot cream over the chocolate, stirring until melted and smooth.
Line a half-sheet pan with parchment paper. Cut the sponge in half, down the middle. Spread the raspberry jam evenly over one half and place the other half on top. Cut into even cubes.
Using a fork, dip each cube into the chocolate ganache, and then roll each one in a bowl of the coconut, coating the entire cube. Place the coated cube on the parchment-lined half-sheet pan. Repeat this process and chill the pan full of cubes, uncovered, in the refrigerator for a few minutes to set.

Chocolate Peanut Butter MousseFilled Cupcakes 
2 3/4 cups sprouted spelt flour or whole wheat pastry flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoon sea salt
2/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder, sifted
1/2 cup canola oil
1 1/4 cups light agave nectar
1 cup soy milk
1/2 cup firm silken tofu
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
2 tablespoons raw apple cider vinegar
12 ounces light firm silken tofu
1/2 cup light agave nectar
1 cup smooth peanut butter
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon sea salt
Vegan Chocolate Ganache Frosting
Chopped toasted peanuts, for garnish (optional)

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Line 2 cupcake pans with 18 paper liners and fill the empty cups half full of water to prevent scorching.
To make the cupcakes, mix the flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and cocoa powder together in a large bowl. In a food processor, blend the canola oil, agave nectar, soy milk, tofu, vanilla extract, and vinegar, scraping down the bowl often. Blend until very smooth, with no chunks of tofu visible, about 2 to 3 minutes. Combine the wet ingredients with the dry ingredients. Stir well and spoon into the prepared cupcake pan, leaving some room at the top of each cup. Bake for 20 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center of a cupcake comes out clean. Remove the cupcakes from the pan and place on a cooling rack. Cool completely before filling and frosting.
To prepare the filling, blend the tofu in a food processor until very smooth and creamy, approximately 1 to 2 minutes. Add the agave nectar and blend again. Add the peanut butter, vanilla extract, and salt and blend thoroughly until very light and smooth. Refrigerate for 1 to 2 hours to firm before filling the cupcakes.
To assemble the cupcakes, you will need a pastry bag fitted with a large, plain smooth tip. Fill the pastry bag with peanut butter mousse and insert the tip halfway into the top of a cupcake. Squeeze filling inside each cupcake just until it starts to expand.
Next frost the tops. If the frosting is too firm, heat in the microwave for a few seconds to soften it up. Spread the ganache evenly over the tops of the cupcakes. Let the cupcakes sit in the refrigerator until ready to serve.
Garnish with peanuts if desired.

Lemony Slice-and-Bakes 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons finely grated lemon zest
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 large egg yolks
1 1/4 cups powdered sugar
2 tablespoons (or more) fresh lemon juice
Food coloring (optional)
Sanding sugar (optional)

Whisk flour and salt in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat butter, sugar, lemon zest, and vanilla in a large bowl, occasionally scraping down sides, until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add egg yolks; beat just to blend. Reduce speed to low; add flour mixture and beat, occasionally scraping down sides, just to blend. Divide dough in half; roll each half into a 10 inch-long log about 1 3/4 inch in diameter. Wrap in plastic and chill until firm, about 1 hour. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.
Arrange racks in lower and upper thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Unwrap 1 dough log. Using a sharp, lightly floured knife, cut log into 1/4 inch-thick rounds. Transfer to prepared sheets, spacing 1 inch apart.
Bake until cookies are firm and golden brown around edges, 16-18 minutes. Let cool for 1 minute, then transfer to wire racks and let cool completely. Repeat with remaining dough log, using cooled baking sheets and new parchment paper.
Whisk sugar and 2 tablespoons juice in a small bowl, adding more juice by 1/2-teaspoonfuls if too thick. Add coloring, if desired. Spread or drizzle icing over cookies. Decorate as desired. Let stand until icing sets, about 10 minutes. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Apple Brown Betty with Sorghum Zabaglione 
6 to 8 apples (Gala or Granny Smith), peeled, cored, and cut into 1/4-inch slices
1/2 cup granulated sugar
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
Juice of 1 lemon
1/2 vanilla bean, seeds and pod
1/2 loaf bread, crust removed (any type of white bread is fine)
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter
2 tablespoons packed light brown sugar
3 cups Sorghum Zabaglione

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter an 8 by 8-inch baking dish.
In a large bowl, toss the apples with the granulated sugar, cinnamon, ginger, lemon juice, and the vanilla pod and seeds. Cover with plastic wrap and let sit for 30 minutes.
Tear the bread up and pulse in a food processor. Spread out the bread crumbs on a rimmed baking sheet and toast in the oven for 5 to 8 minutes, until golden. Set aside.
While the bread crumbs are toasting, place 4 tablespoons of the butter into a small saucepan over medium heat. Cook until the milk solids separate from the fat and the butter begins to brown.
In a medium bowl, mix the bread crumbs, brown sugar, and warm brown butter together. Add about one-quarter of the bread-crumb mixture to the apples. Toss to combine.
Fill the prepared baking dish with the apple mixture. Dot with the remaining 2 tablespoons of butter.
Cover the top with the remaining bread-crumb mixture. Press down firmly all over the top so that the mixture is tightly packed in the dish.
Bake on the middle rack of the oven until the apples are soft and the juices start to bubble, 25 to 35 minutes.
Serve warm and with a 1/2-cup scoop of sorghum zabaglione on top of each portion.

Cardamom Crescents 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar, divided
1 cup pecans
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 tablespoon vanilla extract

Arrange racks in lower and upper thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Whisk first 4 ingredients in a medium bowl. Combine 1/2 cup sugar and pecans in a food processor; pulse until coarse meal forms. Using an electric mixer, beat butter and vanilla in a medium bowl until creamy, 2-3 minutes. Add nut mixture; beat to blend. Add dry ingredients; blend well (dough will be moist but still crumbly). Transfer to a work surface; knead to form a ball, about 4 turns.
Measure 1 rounded tablespoon of dough; form into a ball, then roll into a 1 1/2 inch-long log. Gently bend into a crescent shape, pinching ends to taper (cookies may crack slightly). Repeat with remaining dough, spacing about 1 inch apart on prepared sheets.
Bake, rotating sheets halfway through baking, until bottoms are golden, 12-15 minutes. Sift remaining 1 cup powdered sugar into a shallow wide bowl. Working in batches of about 8 cookies each, roll warm cookies gently in powdered sugar to coat. Transfer to a wire rack to let cool. Roll or dust cooled cookies with powdered sugar. DO AHEAD: Can be made 5 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Chocolate Peppermint Stars 
Buttery Sugar Cookie dough recipe with an addition and adjustments
2/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 cup coarsely crushed small red and white candy canes (see Cooks' Notes)
4 ounces good bittersweet (60% cacao) chocolate, melted (see Cooks' Notes)
Wax paper; parchment paper; 2 large baking sheets; 2- to 3-inch star cookie cutters; small offset spatula (optional)

Make Buttery Sugar Cookie dough as directed, but reduce the flour to 1 1/3 cups and add the cocoa. Whisk the flour and cocoa together.
Halve dough and wrap each half in wax paper, shaping each into a flattened rectangle, then store each half in a resealable plastic bag. Chill dough until firm, at least 2 hours.
Heat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Line baking sheets with parchment paper.
While oven heats, roll out 1 piece of dough (keep remaining dough chilled) between two large sheets of wax paper to slightly less than 1/4 inch thick. (If dough becomes too soft to roll out, quick-chill on a baking sheet in the freezer or chill in the refrigerator until firm.)
Peel back top sheet of wax paper and cut out as many cookies with cutter as possible. Transfer cookies, as cut, to a lined baking sheet, arranging them 1 inch apart. (If dough becomes too soft to remove the cookies, quick-chill on a baking sheet in the freezer or chill in the refrigerator until firm.)
Gather, reroll, and chill scraps to form more cookies.
Freeze or chill cut-out cookies on baking sheet until firm before baking.
Bake cookies, one sheet at time, until edges are a shade darker and centers are set, 9 to 12 minutes. For picture-perfect cookies, use cookie cutters while cookies are hot from the oven to trim edges. (Keep trimmings for snacks.) Transfer cookies with a metal spatula to racks to cool completely. Make more cookies with remaining dough. (Cool baking sheets and use fresh parchment between batches.)
Using the offset spatula or a small rubber spatula, spread cooled cookies with a thin layer of melted chocolate, then sprinkle with some crushed candy canes.
Let cookies stand at room temperature until the chocolate has set, about 1 hour.

Almond-Cranberry Quinoa Cookies 
1 1/2 cups white whole wheat flour
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1/4 cup honey
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1 cup cooked quinoa, cooled
1 cup old-fashioned oats
1 cup dried cranberries
1/2 cup slivered unsalted almonds
Ingredient info: White whole wheat flour and quinoa can be found at better supermarkets and at natural foods stores.

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Whisk flour, salt, baking powder, and baking soda in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat butter, both sugars, and honey in a large bowl until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add eggs and extracts; beat until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Beat in flour mixture, 1/2 cup at a time. Stir in quinoa, oats, cranberries, and almonds. Spoon dough in 2-tablespoon portions onto prepared sheets, spacing 1 inch apart.
Bake cookies until golden, 12-15 minutes. Transfer cookies to a wire rack and let cool. DO AHEAD: Store cooled cookies airtight at room temperature for 1 day, or freeze for up to 1 month.

Peppermint Meringues 
3 large egg whites, room temperature
1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
1/3 cup sugar
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1/8 teaspoon peppermint extract
12 drops red food coloring

Preheat oven to 200 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Using an electric mixer, beat egg whites and salt on medium-high speed until white and foamy, about 1 minute. With mixer running, gradually add sugar in 3 additions, beating for 2 minutes between each addition. Beat until firm peaks form, about 2 minutes longer. Add powdered sugar and peppermint extract; beat to blend, about 1 minute.
Dot coloring over surface of meringue; do not stir (the coloring will form swirls when piped). Spoon meringue into a pastry bag fitted with a 1/2 inch tip. (alternatively, spoon into a plastic freezer bag, then cut 1/2 inch off 1 corner.) Twist top; pipe 1 inch rounds onto prepared sheet, spacing 1 inch apart.
Bake meringues until dry, about 2 1/2 hours. Let cool completely, about 1 hour (meringues will crisp as they cool). DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature between sheets of parchment or waxed paper.

Chocolate-Dipped Spritz Washboards with Pistachios 
Buttery Sugar Cookie dough recipe with substitutions and an ingredient elimination
1 cup confectioners' sugar
3/4 teaspoon pure almond extract
7 to 8 ounces good bittersweet (60% cacao) chocolate
1/4 cup finely chopped salted pistachios
A cookie press fitted with a 1 1/2-inch-long straight fluted opening; 2 large baking sheets

Heat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle.
Make Buttery Sugar Cookie dough as directed, with the following exceptions:
Eliminate the egg.
Substitute 1 cup confectioners' sugar for the granulated sugar and substitute 3/4 teaspoon almond extract for the 1 teaspoon vanilla extract.
Pack the cylinder of the press with some of the dough. Proceed according to the cookie press instructions. Pipe the dough in 3-inch-long strips onto a large ungreased baking sheet, spacing them 1 inch apart. Use a paring knife to cut the dough free from the cookie press.
Freeze or chill the cookies on the baking sheet until firm.
Bake until edges are pale golden, 7 to 10 minutes. Cool on sheets 2 minutes, then transfer cookies with a metal spatula to racks to cool.
Continue to pipe, chill, and bake more spritz washboards in batches with remaining dough (pipe and chill on second sheet while first sheet is baking; cool baking sheets between batches and use fresh parchment paper).
Melt chocolate (see Cooks' Notes) in a deep metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water, stirring occasionally until smooth. Remove bowl from the pan. Use a folded towel to tilt the bowl slightly, so that the melted chocolate is deep enough for dipping the cookies.
Put pistachios in a shallow bowl.
Set cooling racks on baking sheets.
Dip cookies, one at a time, in chocolate so that it coats about half the cookie on the diagonal, then scrape off the excess chocolate from the bottom of the cookie against the rim of the bowl.
Sprinkle the chocolate with some pistachios and arrange the cookies on the racks.
Let cookies stand at room temperature until the chocolate has set, about 1 hour.

Root Beer Cake 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, at room temperature, for the pan
1 1/2 cups plus 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
One 12-ounce bottle (1 1/4 cups) root beer
1/2 cup molasses
1/2 teaspoon plus 1/8 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 cup dark brown sugar
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons vegetable oil
3 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon granulated sugar
One 1-inch piece of fresh ginger, peeled and grated on a microplane or on the finest side of a box grater (1 teaspoon)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 large egg
1 3/4 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/4 teaspoons ground star anise
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom
1/2 whole nutmeg, grated (or 2 teaspoons ground nutmeg)
Finely grated zest of 2 lemons
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon fresh-ground black pepper
3/4 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon sassafras bark (or 1/2 teaspoon sassafras extract; see Note))
2 cups powdered sugar
Pinch of ground star anise
Pinch of ground cardamom
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 whole nutmeg, grated (or about 1 teaspoon ground nutmeg)
Finely grated zest of 1/2 lemon

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Grease the bottom and sides of a 10-inch cake pan well with some of the butter.
Cut out a piece of parchment paper so it fits closely into the bottom of the cake pan. Line the bottom of the pan with the parchment, and then grease the parchment with more butter.
Shake 1 tablespoon of the flour into the cake pan, and shake it around so it sticks to the butter. Tap out any excess flour that doesn't stick to the parchment or to the sides of the pan.
Pour the root beer and molasses into a deep medium-sized pot, and bring the mixture to a boil over high heat. (You need those high sides because the baking soda will froth up very high, and you don't want it to spill over! So make sure there's some meaningful space between the liquid and the top of the pot.)
Pull the pot off the heat and whisk in all the baking soda, so it froths up. Then put the pot right in the fridge to cool down a little.
While the root beer mix is cooling down, whisk the brown sugar, vegetable oil, granulated sugar, ginger, and vanilla extract together in a mixing bowl. The mixture will be a little chunky at this point.
Crack the egg into the bowl and whisk well. The egg is what makes everything come together smoothly: you should have a thick paste. Set this aside.
In another mixing bowl, combine rest of the flour with the baking powder, star anise, and cardamom. Grate in the nutmeg and lemon zest, and add the salt and pepper. Whisk everything together so it's well combined.
Take the root beer mixture out of the fridge. Pour a third of the flour mixture into a large mixing bowl; pour in one-third of the root beer mixture, then one-third of the sugar paste. Whisk everything together slowly (so it doesn't splash everywhere), and then add another one-third of the flour, another one-third of the root beer, and so forth, until everything is combined in the bowl. (The mix doesn't need to be completely and smoothly combined until the last of the wet and dry mixtures are in the bowl.) You should have a very wet, almost liquid batter.
Pour the batter into the cake pan, put the pan on a cookie sheet (to catch drips and splashes), and put it on the middle oven rack.
Bake the cake for 45 minutes without opening the oven at all (this cake will sink if you shake it up while it's baking). Check it: the cake should be high and dark brown, with a little bit of spring-back when you touch it (but not too much—it's a very moist cake). If it's not quite ready, rotate the pan and put it back in the oven for another 5 minutes before checking it again. The whole baking process shouldn't take longer than 55 minutes, even in a slow oven.
Whisk the cream and sassafras together in a small pot, and bring it up to a boil over medium-high heat.
As soon as it boils, pull the mixture off the heat, pour it into a glass or ceramic container (something that won't crack from the heat), and put it in the fridge. Let the mixture cool for about 30 minutes while the sassafras steeps into the cream, so you have a nice root beer flavor.
In a mixing bowl, combine the powdered sugar, star anise, cardamon, and salt. Grate in the nutmeg and lemon zest, and whisk everything together.
Strain the cooled cream through a fine-mesh strainer into a small mixing bowl (so the sassafras pieces don't end up in the glaze).
Gently whisk 1/2 cup of the cream into the powdered sugar mixture, holding back the last 2 tablespoons to see if you need it. If the mixture is dry and not coming together as a glaze, add more cream. Whisk the mixture well, until you have a shiny, thick liquid.
When the cake is ready, pull it out of the oven and let it rest for about 5 minutes.
Flip the cake out of the pan onto a serving plate.
Spread the glaze thickly on top of the warm cake with a spoon. The glaze will melt and drip down the sides as you slather it on.
You can serve the cake as soon as it's cooled to room temperature—but like all spice cakes, it's even better the day after you make it. Store it covered at room temperature.

Chocolate Macaroons with Orange Ganache 
2 cups powdered sugar, divided
1 1/4 cups slivered almonds
3 tablespoons natural unsweetened cocoa powder
1/3 cup plus 3 tablespoons egg whites (from about 3 large eggs), room temperature, whisked to loosen
1/4 cup sugar
3 1/2 ounces bittersweet chocolate (do not exceed 61% cacao), finely chopped
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/2 inch cubes
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon finely grated orange zest
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/8 teaspoon ground allspice
1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
Gold dust (optional)
Ingredient info: Gold dust is available at specialty foods stores and lusterdust.com.

Arrange racks in lower and upper thirds of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. Line 3 rimless baking sheets with parchment paper. Pulse 1 cup powdered sugar and almonds in a food processor until nuts are very finely ground (but not to a paste), 60-90 seconds. Add cocoa powder and remaining 1 cup powdered sugar; process to blend well. Sift mixture through a medium-mesh strainer into a large bowl; discard larger almond pieces remaining in strainer (if more than 1 tablespoon remains, pulse nuts again in processor and re-sift).
Using an electric mixer, beat 1/3 cup egg whites in a medium bowl on medium speed until white and frothy, about 1 minute. With mixer on medium-low speed, gradually add sugar by tablespoonfuls. Increase speed to medium-high; beat until firm peaks form.
Stir in remaining 3 tablespoons egg whites. Fold meringue into dry ingredients in 2 additions, mixing well between additions.
Spoon meringue into a pastry bag fitted with a 1/4 inch tip. (Alternatively, spoon into a plastic freezer bag, then cut 1/4 inch off a corner of bag.) Twist top of bag and pipe quarter size rounds onto 2 of the 3 prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Let stand until tops appear dry, about 10 minutes.
Bake cookies, rotating sheets halfway through baking, until puffed and dry, about 16 minutes. Slide cookies on parchment onto a wire rack. Let cool completely. Repeat with remaining batter on third baking sheet.
Place chocolate and butter in a medium bowl. Bring cream just to a boil in a small saucepan over medium-high heat. Remove from heat; stir in orange zest, cloves, allspice, and salt. Pour hot cream mixture over chocolate and butter; whisk until smooth. Refrigerate until firm, about 20 minutes.
Spoon ganache into a pastry bag fitted with a 1/4 inch tip. (Alternatively, spoon into a plastic freezer bag, then cut 1/4 inch off a corner of bag.) Twist top of bag and pipe about 1 teaspoon ganache onto flat side of 1 cookie, leaving 1/4 inch-1/8 inch plain border. Top with a second cookie, flat side down. Repeat with the remaining cookies and ganache. Brush tops with gold dust, if desired. Layer in an airtight container between sheets of parchment paper and refrigerate overnight. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled. Let return to room temperature before serving.

Chewy Ginger Cookies 
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
3/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup vegetable shortening (preferably trans-fat free)
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 large egg
1/2 cup blackstrap (robust) molasses
2 teaspoons finely grated peeled ginger
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup finely chopped crystallized ginger
1 cup raw or sanding sugar

Arrange racks in lower and upper thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Whisk flour, ground ginger, baking soda, cinnamon, nutmeg, salt, and pepper in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer on medium-high speed, beat brown sugar, shortening, and butter in a large bowl, scraping down sides halfway through beating, until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Reduce mixer speed to low. Add egg, molasses, grated ginger, and vanilla; beat just to blend. Add flour mixture; beat on low speed just to blend. Mix in crystallized ginger (dough will be very soft and sticky).
Place raw sugar in a shallow bowl. Using a tablespoon measure, scoop out dough. Using a second spoon, scoop dough from tablespoon measure into bowl with raw sugar; turn to coat well. Roll into a ball. Transfer to prepared baking sheet. Repeat with half of remaining dough and sugar, spacing balls 1 1/2 inch apart.
Bake cookies, rotating sheets halfway through, until edges are firm and centers appear cracked, 10-12 minutes. Transfer cookies to wire racks and let cool. Repeat with remaining dough and sugar, using cooled baking sheets and new parchment. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature between sheets of parchment or waxed paper.

Pumpkin Whoopie Pies 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1 cup packed light brown sugar
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1 (15-ounce) can pure pumpkin (not pie filling)
1 large egg
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 tablespoons packed light brown sugar
Pinch of salt
1/2 tablespoon water
1/2 cup pecans
6 ounces cream cheese, softened
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
Pinch of salt
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar
1 tablespoon bourbon (optional; substitute 1 teaspoon vanilla extract)
2 large baking sheets; parchment paper; 1-ounce round ice cream scoop (optional; see Cooks' Notes)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, soda, salt, and spices in a bowl.
Whisk together sugar, oil, pumpkin, egg, and vanilla in a separate large bowl until well combined, then stir in flour mixture.
Using a 1-ounce ice cream scoop or tablespoon measure, drop a scant scoop's worth of batter or 2 scant tablespoons of batter onto a lined baking sheet to form 1 mound. Make 15 more mounds, arranging them 2 inches apart until baking sheet is full (you will have batter left over).
Bake until springy to the touch, 12 to 18 minutes. Transfer cookie-cakes to rack to cool.
Form and bake remaining batter on the other parchment-lined sheet. You should have a total of 32 cookie-cakes.
Leave oven on.
Line a small sheet pan with parchment paper.
Stir together sugar, salt, and 1/2 tablespoon water in a small saucepan. Heat over moderate heat until sugar dissolves, then bring to a boil. Stir in pecans.
Spread mixture on lined sheet pan and bake until coating is bubbling and golden brown, about 10 minutes.
Cool completely on pan on a rack.
Coarsely chop candied pecans.
While cookie-cakes are baking, beat cream cheese, butter, and salt in a bowl with an electric mixer until smooth. Add confectioners' sugar and bourbon and mix on low speed until smooth.
Chill filling until firm enough to hold its shape when spread, 30 minutes to 1 hour.
Spread 1 heaping tablespoon of filling each on flat side of half the cooled cookie-cakes, then top with other half of cookie-cakes. If necessary, chill whoopie pies just long enough to firm up filling again, about 30 minutes.
Gently press pecans onto filling around middle of each whoopie pie to help them adhere to filling.

Gingerbread Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2 inch pieces
1/2 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1/2 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
1 large egg, beaten to blend
2 teaspoons grated peeled ginger
1 cup chilled heavy cream
1 tablespoon powdered sugar
1/4 cup store-bought lemon curd
Finely grated lemon zest
An 8 inch square metal cake pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat pan with nonstick spray. Line bottom with parchment paper; spray paper. Whisk flour and next 5 ingredients in a medium bowl. Place butter in a large bowl. Pour 1/2 cup boiling water over; whisk until melted. Whisk in sugar and next 3 ingredients. Add dry ingredients; whisk to blend. Transfer to prepared pan.
Bake until a tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Let cool in pan for 10 minutes. Invert onto a wire rack; let cool. Remove parchment.
Beat cream and sugar in a medium bowl until firm peaks form. Fold in curd, leaving swirls. Spread over cake. Garnish with zest.

Almond-Oat Lace Cookies 
1/2 cup whole natural unsalted almonds with skins
2 tablespoons old-fashioned oats
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter
6 tablespoons superfine sugar
2 tablespoons (packed) light brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons honey
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
4 ounces bittersweet chocolate, melted

Arrange racks in lower and upper thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 rimless baking sheets with parchment paper. Pulse almonds and oats in a food processor until coarse meal forms. Set aside.
Melt butter in a medium saucepan over medium heat. Add both sugars and honey; whisk until blended and sugar dissolves, 1-2 minutes. Remove from heat. Add nut mixture, flour, and salt; stir until well blended.
Spoon batter by 2-teaspoon portions onto baking sheets, spacing 2 1/2 inch apart. Using your fingertips, pat cookies down to 1/4 inch-high rounds; push in any jagged edges to form smooth circles. Bake, rotating sheets after 6 minutes, until dark golden brown and cookies spread out into a thin layer, 10-12 minutes. Slide cookies on parchment onto a wire rack and let cool.
Using a pastry brush, brush half of each cookie with melted chocolate. Let stand until the chocolate is set, about 2 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight between sheets of parchment or waxed paper.

Romeo's Sighs and Juliet's Kisses 
4 ounces (1 stick) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon pure almond extract
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup all-purpose flour, sifted
4 ounces (1 stick) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup all-purpose flour, sifted
1/4 cup Dutch-process cocoa powder, sifted
1 cup Nutella, raspberry jam, or melted bittersweet chocolate

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line two half-sheet pans with parchment paper.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter and sugar. Add the almond extract. Add the salt and flour, beating just until each addition is incorporated.
Drop by rounded teaspoonfuls onto one of the prepared pans. Set aside until you prepare Juliet's Kisses.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter and sugar. Add the vanilla. Add the salt, flour, and cocoa powder, beating until each addition is incorporated.
Drop by level teaspoonfuls onto the second prepared pan. (These cookies spread more than the Romeos.)
Place the pan of the Romeos and the pan of Juliets in the center of the oven. Bake 8 to 10 minutes, or until the Romeos just start to brown at the edges. Cool completely on wire racks.
Spread the filling onto the flat side of a Romeo and sandwich together with a Juliet. Repeat this process with the remaining cookies.

Megan's Pecan Pralines 
3 cups sugar
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons evaporated milk
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
2 cups (about 8 ounces) pecans, coarsely chopped
pastry brush; 2 large baking sheets; wax paper; candy thermometer

Line 2 large baking sheets with wax paper.
In a large heavy pot, stir together the sugar and 1 cup evaporated milk. Attach a candy thermometer to the pot and place it over moderately low heat. Cook, stirring occasionally—use a pastry brush dipped in cold water to wash down any sugar crystals clinging to the side of the pot—until the sugar is dissolved, 2 to 3 minutes. Raise the heat to moderate and cook the mixture, undisturbed, until the thermometer registers 238 degrees F (soft-ball stage), 12 to 15 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and let the mixture cool, undisturbed, until the thermometer registers 220 degrees F, about 6 minutes.
Using a wooden spoon, stir in the vanilla and butter. Continue stirring until the mixture is creamy and thick, 1 to 2 minutes. Stir in the pecan pieces. Working quickly, use a wooden spoon to scoop up heaping tablespoons of the praline mixture and a small metal spoon to scrape the mixture onto the prepared baking sheets, leaving about 1 inch between pralines. If the mixture starts to crystallize and harden, add 1 to 2 tablespoons evaporated milk and place over low heat, stirring, until the mixture softens then continue dropping on prepared baking sheets. Let the pralines harden at room temperature. DO AHEAD: Pralines can be made ahead, wrapped individually in waxed paper, and stored in an airtight container in a cool place, up to 1 week.

Siobhan's Thumbprint Cookies 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup jam such as raspberry, strawberry, or apricot
Confectioners' sugar for dusting
2 large baking sheets; parchment paper; small pestle

Position a rack in the upper third of the oven and a second rack in the lower third then preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper.
In a large bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda, and salt.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the butter and sugar and beat on medium speed, scraping the bowl occasionally, until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add the egg and vanilla and beat until fully incorporated, about 1 minute. With the mixer on low, add the flour mixture, and stir until just combined. Shape the dough into a disc, wrap it in plastic, and chill at least 1 hour and up to 24 hours.
Roll the dough into 1-inch balls and arrange on baking sheets, leaving about 3 inches between cookies. Using your thumb or the round end of a small pestle, make a well in the center of each cookie. Using a teaspoon, fill each well with jam, being careful not to overfill the wells. Bake, switching the cookies between the upper and lower racks about halfway through baking, until golden, about 15 minutes. Cool the cookies on baking sheets for 10 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely. Dust with confectioners' sugar. Continue baking cookies on cooled baking sheets. DO AHEAD: The cookies can be baked ahead and stored, in an airtight container at room temperature, up to 3 days.

Kendra's Vanilla-Cherry Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1 vanilla bean
1 cup (6 ounces) dried cherries
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 large egg
1/2 cup (3 ounces) white chocolate chips
1/2 cup (3 ounces) semisweet chocolate chips
1/2 cup (2 1/2 ounces) chopped blanched hazelnuts or walnuts
2 large baking sheets; 2 nonstick baking mats such as Silpats or parchment paper

Position a rack in the upper third of the oven and a second rack in the lower third then preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with nonstick baking mats or parchment paper.
In a large bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda, and salt.
Using a small knife split the vanilla bean lengthwise then scrape the seeds from the pod into a small bowl and reserve both.
In a small bowl, combine the scraped vanilla bean pod (not the seeds), the dried cherries, and about 1 cup boiling water. Let stand 5 minutes then drain, reserving the cherries and discarding the vanilla bean pod.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the butter, sugar, and brown sugar and beat on medium speed, scraping the bowl occasionally, until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add the egg and the vanilla bean seeds and beat on medium until combined, about 1 minute. With the mixer on low, add the flour mixture in 3 batches, stirring until just combined. Add the cherries, white and semisweet chocolate chips, and the hazelnuts or walnuts and stir until just incorporated.
Drop the dough by heaping tablespoons onto the prepared baking sheets, leaving about 2 inches between cookies. Bake, switching the cookies between the upper and lower racks about halfway through baking, until light golden brown and just set, 10 to 12 minutes. Cool the cookies on baking sheets for 5 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely. Continue baking cookies on cooled baking sheets. DO AHEAD: The cookies can be baked ahead and stored, in an airtight container at room temperature, up to 3 days.

Gourmet Live's First-Birthday Cake 
3 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 1/4 sticks (1 cup plus 2 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
2 cups sugar
4 large eggs, warmed in warm water 5 minutes
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups well-stirred plain, whole-milk yogurt (not Greek-style), at room temperature (see Cooks' Notes)
3/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup boiling-hot water
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
8 ounces bittersweet chocolate (60% cacao), chopped fine
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate (100% cacao), chopped fine
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
3 sticks (1 1/2 cups) unsalted butter, cut into tablespoon pieces and softened
3 (8- or 9-inch) round cake pans, 2 inches deep; large sifter or sieve; electric stand mixer (preferred but optional), fitted with paddle attachment; offset metal spatula (for frosting cake)

Heat oven to 350 degrees F with racks in upper and lower third. Butter cake pans, then line bottoms with rounds of wax paper or parchment and butter the paper. Dust pans with additional flour and knock out excess.
Sift together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt into a bowl.
Beat butter with sugar in a large bowl at medium-high speed (preferably using a stand mixer) until pale and fluffy, 3 to 5 minutes. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add vanilla and beat mixture 5 minutes more.
Reduce speed to low, then add flour mixture alternately with yogurt in 3 batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing just until smooth. Divide batter between pans (about 2 3/4 cups per pan), spreading evenly, then rap each pan on counter once or twice to eliminate air bubbles.
Bake layers, switching position of pans and rearranging them in oven halfway through baking time, until cake begins to pull away from side of pan and a wooden pick inserted in center of each comes out clean, 15 to 20 minutes total for 9-inch pans and 20 to 25 minutes total for 8-inch pans.
Cool 10 minutes in pans on racks, then run a thin knife around edge of pans and invert layers onto racks to cool completely.
Whisk together sugar, cornstarch, and salt in a heavy saucepan, then whisk in boiling-hot water. Bring to a boil over medium heat, whisking, then reduce heat and simmer, whisking constantly, 1 minute (mixture will be thick).
Remove pan from heat and whisk in corn syrup. Add chocolates and vanilla, then stir once. Let stand 1 minute and stir again until chocolate is melted and mixture is smooth.
Transfer chocolate mixture to a metal bowl and set bowl in a larger bowl of ice water. Stir chocolate mixture until it has cooled to room temperature, about 5 minutes.
With an electric mixer, beat in butter, 2 tablespoons at a time, until incorporated and frosting is light and holds soft peaks.
Put a layer, bottom side up, on a cake plate or stand. Spread 1 cup of frosting over top. Cover with another layer, bottom side up, and spread with another cup of frosting. Top with third layer, bottom side up.
Spread a thin layer of frosting around sides and over top of cake with offset spatula. (This is called crumb-coating. It tamps down any loose crumbs to keep them out of the top layer of frosting and fills in any crevices.) Chill or briefly freeze cake just until frosting is firm.
Spread sides and top of cake with remaining frosting.

Milk Chocolate and Salted Caramel Gâteau Saint-Honoré 
2 14-ounce packages frozen puff pastry (2 sheets; such as Dufour), thawed
1 cup (scant) all-purpose flour plus more for surface
1 cup whole milk
5 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 teaspoon sugar
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
4 large eggs
2 cups whole milk
1/3 cup plus 1/4 cup sugar
5 tablespoons cornstarch
6 large egg yolks
3 1/2 tablespoons unsalted butter
6 ounces high-quality milk chocolate (such as Lindt or Scharffen Berger), chopped
1 1/4 cups hot pastry cream (from above)
1 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy cream, divided
9 tablespoons sugar
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/4 cup heavy cream
1 1/4 cups chilled pastry cream (from above)
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
Chocolate Glaze
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Unfold 1 puff pastry sheet on a lightly floured surface. Unfold second pastry sheet and place directly on top of first, forming 2 layers. Press slightly to adhere. Using a 10 inch cake pan or tart pan bottom as a guide, cut pastry with a paring knife into a 10 inch round. Place on 1 prepared sheet.
Bake base until puffed and deep golden brown, about 30 minutes. Let cool. DO AHEAD:Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
For cream puffs, preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Combine milk, butter, sugar, and salt in a medium saucepan; bring to a boil. Remove from heat and add 1 cup flour. Stir to combine. Return to medium-high heat; stir dough vigorously until a dry film forms on bottom and sides of pan, about 2 minutes.
Transfer dough to a stand mixer fitted with a paddle attachment. Add eggs one at a time, incorporating fully between additions. Scrape dough into a pastry bag fitted with a 1/2 inch tip or a plastic bag with 1/2 inch cut diagonally from 1 corner. Pipe 1 inch-1 1/4 inch-diameter rounds onto second parchment-lined sheet (there should be 25-30 rounds). Smooth any pointed tips with damp fingertips to form rounded tops.
Bake for 20 minutes. Lower temperature to 325 degrees F and bake until golden brown and dry, 15-20 minutes. Let cool completely.
Using a sharp knife, cut a small hole in bottom of each puff. DO AHEAD:> Can be made 2 months ahead. Store airtight in freezer. Thaw before continuing.
Bring milk and 1/3 cup sugar to a simmer in a medium saucepan, stirring until sugar dissolves. Stir cornstarch and 3 tablespoons water in a small bowl to dissolve. Whisk egg yolks with remaining 1/4 cup sugar in a medium bowl. Add cornstarch mixture. Gradually whisk in hot milk mixture; return to saucepan. Whisk constantly over medium heat until thick, about 2 minutes. Remove from heat. Add butter. Whisk until melted and smooth. Divide pastry cream equally between 2 medium bowls (about 1 1/4 cups each). Press plastic wrap directly onto surface of 1 bowl of pastry cream. Chill until cold and reserve for salted caramel mousseline. Immediately use hot pastry cream for diplomat cream.
Add milk chocolate to hot pastry cream; stir until melted and smooth. Press plastic wrap directly onto surface of cream and let cool to room temperature.
Place 2 tablespoons cold water in a medium bowl. Sprinkle gelatin over; let stand for 10 minutes to soften. Bring 1/2 cup cream to a boil in a small heavy saucepan. Add hot cream mixture to softened gelatin mixture and stir until dissolved. Chill just until cold, whisking frequently, about 5 minutes. Place remaining 1 cup chilled cream in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat until peaks form. Add gelatin mixture and beat until stiff peaks form.
Fold whipped cream into chocolate mixture in 3 additions, folding just to blend between additions. Cover and chill until set, about 3 hours.
Stir 2 tablespoons water, sugar, and cream of tartar in a saucepan over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to medium-high; boil without stirring, occasionally swirling pan and brushing down sides with a wet pastry brush, until deep amber color forms, about 7 minutes. Remove from heat; gradually add cream (mixture will bubble vigorously). Stir until any caramel bits dissolve and mixture is smooth. Let cool.
In a stand mixer fitted with a whisk attachment, beat reserved chilled pastry cream and caramel sauce at medium speed. Gradually add butter, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating until fully incorporated between additions. Beat in salt and vanilla. Scoop into a pastry bag fitted with a small tip or a plastic bag with 1/4 inch cut diagonally from 1 corner and pipe into cream puffs. Cover cream puffs and chill.
Set the puff pastry disk on a serving plate. Set half of cream puffs aside. Dip bottom of remaining cream puffs into Chocolate Glaze and arrange in a circle, chocolate side down, around the edge of the pastry, leaving a 1/2 inch plain border. Repeat with remaining cream puffs, layering over first row of puffs as if laying bricks. Spoon chilled diplomat cream into center of gâteau, spreading out to inner edge of cream puffs. Dust lightly with powdered sugar.

Lauren's Peanut Butter Kiss Cookies 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup packed dark brown sugar
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1/2 cup smooth or chunky peanut butter (not natural)
1 large egg
1 teaspoon pure vanilla or almond extract
30 chocolate kisses, unwrapped
2 large baking sheets

Position a rack in the upper third of the oven and a second rack in the lower third then preheat to 350 degrees F.
In a large bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda, and salt.
Place 1/2 cup sugar in a small bowl.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the remaining 1/2 cup sugar with the brown sugar, butter, and peanut butter and beat on medium speed, scraping the bowl occasionally, until light and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. Add the egg and vanilla or almond extract and beat on medium until fully incorporated, about 1 minute. With the mixer on low, add the flour mixture and stir until just combined. Roll the dough into walnut-size balls, roll in sugar, and arrange on baking sheets, leaving about 2 inches between cookies. Bake, switching the cookies between the upper and lower racks about halfway through baking, until just starting to brown, 8 to 10 minutes. Remove the cookies from the oven and press a chocolate kiss into the center of each. Cool the cookies on baking sheets for 10 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely. Continue baking cookies on cooled baking sheets. DO AHEAD: The cookies can be baked ahead and stored, in an airtight container at room temperature, up to 3 days.

Peanut-Pecan Butter and Oatmeal Cookies 
1/3 cup smooth peanut butter
1/3 cup pecans, toasted, cooled
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 large egg
1/2 cup old-fashioned oats
1/4 cup quick-cooking oats

Combine peanut butter and pecans in a food processor and purée until almost smooth. Whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt in a small bowl.
Using an electric mixer, beat both sugars and butter in a large bowl until fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add peanut butter mixture and vanilla; beat to blend well. Beat in egg. Add dry ingredients and mix until well combined. Add both oats. Continue to blend at high speed for 1 minute. Cover bowl with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 3 hours.
Arrange racks in upper and lower thirds of oven; preheat to 375 degrees . Line 2 baking sheets with foil. Scoop rounded balls of dough (2 teaspoons each) onto cookie sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Bake until light golden, 10-12 minutes (rotate baking sheets 180 degrees halfway through baking).
Let cookies cool on sheets for 2 minutes. Transfer to wire racks to cool completely.

Cranberry Spice Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups (8 ounces) fresh (or frozen, thawed) cranberries
2/3 cup sugar
2/3 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup grapeseed oil or other neutral vegetable oil
2 large eggs
1/2 cup sour cream
1 tablespoon freshly grated orange zest
2 teaspoon freshly grated lemon zest
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup apple cider
1 cup powdered sugar
2 teaspoons freshly grated lemon zest
3 tablespoons strained fresh lemon juice
1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
citrus-cranberry compote ; optional)
An 8 inch-square cake pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat bottom and sides of cake pan with nonstick spray. Line bottom with parchment paper; coat paper with spray. Whisk flour and next 5 ingredients in a medium bowl and set aside. Pulse cranberries in a food processor until finely chopped but not puréed; set aside.
Stir sugar, brown sugar, and oil in another medium bowl to blend. Add eggs one at a time, stirring to blend between additions. Whisk in sour cream, orange zest, lemon zest, and vanilla.
Whisk in dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with cider in 2 additions and whisking to blend. Fold in chopped cranberries. Scrape batter into prepared pan; smooth top.
Bake, rotating pan halfway through, until a tester inserted into center of cake comes out almost clean,1 hour—1 hour 10 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack; let cake cool in pan for 15 minutes. Run a thin knife around inside of pan to release cake; turn out cake onto rack. Peel off parchment paper, then flip cake and let cool for 20 minutes.
Whisk powdered sugar, lemon zest, lemon juice, and salt in a small bowl. Spread glaze over warm cake, allowing it to drip down sides. Let stand until glaze becomes crackly, about 1 hour. Serve at room temperature. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
Serve cake with Citrus-Cranberry Compote , if desired.

Gâteau de Sirop 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour plus more
2 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon kosher salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup sour cream
1/2 cup Steen's cane syrup, dark corn syrup, or golden syrup
2 large eggs
1 tablespoon grated peeled ginger
1/2 cup warm buttermilk
1 tablespoon powdered sugar
An 11 inch-diameter tart pan with a removable bottom

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour pan; set on a rimmed baking sheet. Whisk 2 1/4 cups flour and next 6 ingredients in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat 1/2 cup butter and sugar until fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add sour cream; beat to blend. Add cane syrup and 1/2 cup hot water; beat until smooth. Beat in eggs one at a time; blend well between additions. Add ginger. Beat in dry ingredients in 3 additions on low speed. Add buttermilk; beat just to blend. Pour into pan; smooth top.
Bake until a tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Let cool completely. Dust with powdered sugar before serving.

Chocolate Cake 
2 cups blanched almond flour
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon sea salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup agave nectar
2 large eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla extract

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a 9-inch cake pan with grapeseed oil and dust with almond flour.
In a large bowl, combine the almond flour, cocoa powder, salt, and baking soda. In a medium bowl, combine the agave nectar, eggs, and vanilla extract. Stir the wet ingredients into the almond flour mixture until thoroughly combined. Scoop the batter into the prepared cake pan.
Bake for 35 to 40 minutes, until a toothpick inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean. Let the cake cool in the pan for 1 hour, then serve.

Chocolate Hazelnut Cake with Praline Chocolate Crunch 
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups blanched hazelnuts, toasted
1 teaspoon hazelnut or vegetable oil
4 ounces dark chocolate (do not exceed 72% cacao), chopped
4 ounces high-quality milk chocolate (such as Lindt or Scharffen Berger), chopped
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1 3/4 cups puffed rice cereal or crushed cornflakes
Unsalted butter (for parchment paper)
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder
8 large eggs
1 cup sugar, divided
2 tablespoons corn syrup
1/2 cup brandy or orange liqueur
1/2 cup heavy cream
1/2 cup hazelnut butter (or ground roasted hazelnuts)
Pinch of kosher salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 1/2 ounces dark chocolate (do not exceed 72% cacao), chopped
1 cup hazelnut praline paste (reserved from praline chocolate crunch)
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature, cubed
1 3/4 cups chilled heavy cream, divided
Chocolate Glazeepi:recipelink</epi:recipelink>
1/4 cup roasted hazelnuts

Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Stir sugar and 1/3 cup water in a small saucepan over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and cook without stirring, occasionally swirling pan and brushing down sides with a wet pastry brush, until amber in color, 7-8 minutes. Stir in hazelnuts, then pour onto 1 prepared sheet, separating nuts. Let cool.
Transfer candied nuts to a food processor. Add hazelnut oil and purée until smooth to make praline paste.
Combine both chocolates and 3 tablespoons praline paste in a medium metal bowl (reserve remaining praline paste for praline mousse layer). Set bowl over a saucepan of simmering water and stir until chocolate is melted and mixture is smooth. Remove from heat and stir in salt, then cereal. Spread out in a thin layer (about 1/8 inch) on second prepared baking sheet. Chill until set, about 30 minutes.DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep chilled. Cover and chill remaining praline paste.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line a 17x11x1 inch sheet pan with parchment paper; butter paper. Sift flour and cocoa powder into a medium bowl and set aside. Separate 4 eggs, placing yolks in a large bowl and whites in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat yolks with 1/2 cup sugar on medium speed until thick and light yellow, about 3 minutes. Beat in 4 whole eggs, one at a time, blending well between additions.
Using clean, dry beaters, beat egg whites with remaining 1/2 cup sugar and corn syrup until slightly thickened and frothy, about 2 minutes. Add egg-white mixture to egg-yolk mixture and beat to blend. Add flour-cocoa powder mixture; fold just to blend. Spread out evenly on prepared baking sheet.
Bake until a tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Let cool completely. Invert cake onto a large cutting board or baking sheet and peel off parchment. Brush cake all over with brandy. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
Bring cream to a boil in a small saucepan. Purée hot cream, hazelnut butter, and salt in a food processor. Let cool to room temperature. With machine running, add butter, 1 tablespoon at a time, puréeing until smooth between additions. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill. Return to room temperature before using.
Combine chocolate, praline paste, and butter in a medium bowl. Bring 3/4 cup cream to a boil in a small saucepan; pour over chocolate mixture. Let stand for 1 minute, then stir until melted and smooth. Beat remaining 1 cup chilled cream until soft peaks form. Fold whipped cream into chocolate mixture. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill.
Spread nut ganache over cake and chill in freezer until set, about 15 minutes. Spread mousse over ganache and chill in freezer until set, about 15 minutes. Cut cake crosswise into thirds; stack layers on top of each other. Trim edges, then spread Chocolate Glaze epi:recipelinkover top and sides of cake. Freeze until set, about 1 hour. Place in refrigerator and chill overnight. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Tent with foil and keep chilled. </epi:recipelink>
Let cake stand at room temperature for 30 minutes before serving. Break up praline chocolate crunch into large shards and arrange on top of cake. Garnish with roasted hazelnuts.

Pear Upside-Down Cake 
9 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature, divided, plus more
3/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons unbleached all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons coarse yellow cornmeal or polenta
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup sugar, divided
2 medium pears (about 1 pound)
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 large eggs, separated
1/2 cup whole milk
Whipped cream or caramel gelato (optional)
An 8 inch-diameter round cake pan with 2 inch-high sides

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. Butter pan; line bottom with a parchment-paper round. Whisk flour, cornmeal, baking powder, and salt in a small bowl. Stir 1/4 cup sugar and 2 tablespoons water in a small saucepan over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to medium-high. Boil syrup without stirring, occasionally swirling pan and brushing down sides with a wet pastry brush, until sugar turns dark amber, 8-10 minutes. Remove pan from heat; add 1 tablespoon butter (caramel will bubble vigorously) and whisk until smooth. Pour caramel into prepared cake pan and swirl to coat bottom.
Peel, halve, and core the pears. Place flat on a work surface and cut lengthwise into 1/8 inch-thick slices. Layer slices over caramel, flat side down, overlapping as needed.
Mix remaining 3/4 cup sugar, 8 tablespoons butter, and vanilla in a large bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat on medium speed until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add yolks one at a time, beating to blend between additions and occasionally scraping bowl. Beat in flour mixture in 3 additions, alternating with milk in 2 additions, beginning and ending with flour mixture.
Using clean, dry beaters, beat egg whites on low speed in a medium bowl until frothy. Increase the speed to medium and continue to beat until whites form soft peaks. Fold about 1/4 of the whites into cake batter. Add in remaining whites; gently fold just to blend. Pour batter over pears in pan; smooth top.
Bake cake, rotating pan halfway through, until top is golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out with a few small moist crumbs attached, about 1 hour. Let cool in pan on a wire rack for 30 minutes. Run a thin knife around inside of pan to release cake. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
Invert cake onto a plate; remove parchment paper. Serve warm or at room temperature with whipped cream or caramel gelato, if desired.

Christmas Wreaths 
1/2 cup (4 ounces) unsalted butter
30 (7.25 ounces) large marshmallows
1 1/2 teaspoons green liquid food coloring
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
4 cups (5 ounces) cornflakes
2 tablespoons (1 ounce) cinnamon red-hots (candied)
Equipment: flat counter or cookie sheet, lined with wax paper, sprayed with nonstick vegetable cooking spray or lightly greased or buttered; 2 small spoons sprayed with nonstick vegetable cooking spray or lightly greased or buttered.

Spray a medium saucepan with nonstick vegetable shortening or lightly grease it.
Melt the butter over low heat.
Add the marshmallows and melt them over low heat, stirring constantly, until smooth (about 6 minutes). Remove the pan from the heat and whisk in the food coloring and vanilla extract until well blended. Stir in the cornflakes to coat them well. Keep the mixture warm by placing the saucepan in a large pot or skillet filled with 1 inch of very hot tap water. Replace the water as it cools.
Working quickly so the mixture does not harden, use the 2 spoons, or lightly greased fingers, to drop small (1 heaping tablespoon) mounds of the cornflake mixture onto the wax paper. With lightly greased fingers, quickly form cornflake mounds into wreaths with holes in the centers. Immediately, while the wreaths are still sticky, decorate the wreaths with red-hots.
When wreaths dry, they may be strung with nylon string or gold ribbons as tree ornaments.

Patricia's Viennese Crescents 
1 vanilla bean
1 cup sifted confectioners' sugar
1 cup walnuts
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
2 1/2 cups sifted all-purpose flour
2 large baking sheets

Using a small, sharp knife, split the vanilla bean lengthwise and scrape the seeds into a small bowl. Discard the pod. Add 1 tablespoon confectioners' sugar and use a mortar or the back of a spoon to pound and mix them together. Add the remaining confectioners' sugar and stir to combine. Cover and let stand at least 1 hour. DO AHEAD: Vanilla sugar can be made ahead and stored, in an airtight container at room temperature, indefinitely.
Position a rack in the upper third of the oven and a second rack in the lower third then preheat to 350 degrees F.
Using a food processor, grind the walnuts into a chunky paste then transfer to the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. Add the butter and sugar and beat on medium speed, scraping the bowl occasionally, until completely incorporated, about 2 minutes. Add the flour in 3 batches and stir until a smooth dough forms, about 2 minutes.
On a lightly floured surface, shape heaping tablespoons of dough into 3- to 4-inch-long ropes, tapering the ends. Curve each rope into a crescent shape. Transfer to a baking sheet, leaving about 2 inches between cookies. Bake, switching the cookies between the upper and lower racks about halfway through baking, until light golden brown, 18 to 20 minutes. Let the cookies cool 2 to 3 minutes then carefully roll them in vanilla sugar and place on racks to cool completely. Continue baking cookies on cooled baking sheets. DO AHEAD: The cookies can be baked ahead and stored, in an airtight container at room temperature, up to 3 days.

Esther's Gingery Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
8 tablespoons (1 stick) cold unsalted butter
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1/2 cup bittersweet chocolate chips
1/4 cup finely chopped crystallized ginger*
*Crystallized or candied ginger has been cooked in sugar syrup and coated with coarse sugar. It's available at specialty shops and some supermarkets. Sung recommends Reed's and the Ginger People's.
2 large baking sheets; parchment paper

Position a rack in the upper third of the oven and a second rack in the lower third then preheat to 375 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
In a large bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda, and salt.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the butter, sugar, and brown sugar and beat on medium speed, scraping the bowl occasionally, until light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add the egg and vanilla and beat until combined, about 2 minutes. With the mixer on low, add the flour mixture in 3 batches, stirring until just combined. Add the bittersweet and semisweet chocolate chips and the candied ginger and fold until just incorporated. Cover with plastic wrap, pressing the plastic directly on the dough's surface, and chill at least 2 hours and up to 2 days.
Drop the dough by heaping 2 tablespoons onto the baking sheets, leaving about 2 inches between cookies. Bake, switching the cookies between the upper and lower racks about halfway through baking, until golden brown, 12 to 15 minutes. Cool the cookies on baking sheets for 5 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely. Continue baking cookies on cooled baking sheets. DO AHEAD: The cookies can be baked ahead and stored, in an airtight container at room temperature, up to 3 days.

Simply Splendid Sugar Cookies 
2 sticks (1/2 pound) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon fine salt
1 large egg
1 1/3 cups white whole-wheat flour, such as King Arthur
1 1/3 cup unbleached all-purpose flour
White sugar sprinkles, for rolling

1. Arrange the racks in upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Get out 2 large cookie sheets and line with parchment paper. Place some white sugar sprinkles in a small bowl.
2. Prepare dough: Cream the butter and sugar in the bowl of an electric mixer until fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add the vanilla, baking soda and salt and beat at medium speed until incorporated. Add the egg and beat until incorporated. Add the flours and mix at low speed until blended, scraping down the bowl once or twice.
3. Scoop up enough dough to form into a 1-inch ball, rolling between the palms until smooth. Roll the dough ball in sugar sprinkles and then place on the prepared baking sheet. Repeat, arranging a dozen coated dough balls evenly spaced on each sheet and then, using a drinking glass, press on dough balls to flatten to about 1/4 inch thick.
4. Bake cookies about 12 minutes, switching and rotating the pans half way through, until cookies are golden and somewhat firm to the touch. Transfer cookies with a metal spatula to racks and let cool completely. Repeat with remaining dough.

Sara's Santa's Whiskers 
3/4 cup (6 ounces) flaked sweetened coconut
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons whole milk
1 teaspoon pure vanilla or rum extract
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3 ounces red candied cherries, coarsely chopped
3 ounces green candied cherries, coarsely chopped
1/2 cup (4 ounces) coarsely chopped pecans
2 large baking sheets; wax paper

Arrange two approximately 12- by 12-inch square pieces of wax paper on a work surface and spread half the flaked coconut in the middle of each.
In the bowl of a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, combine the butter and sugar and beat on medium speed, scraping the bowl occasionally, until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add the milk and vanilla or rum extract and beat until fully incorporated. With the mixer on low, add the flour in 3 batches, followed by the red and green cherries and the pecans, and stir until just combined, about 2 minutes. Divide the dough in half and form each half into a 10-inch-long log, about 1 1/2 inches in diameter. Transfer each log to a sheet of wax paper and roll to coat them in the coconut. Once the logs are completely covered in coconut, roll the wax paper around each log, cover in plastic wrap, and chill for at least 1 hour and up to 24 hours.
Position a rack in the upper third of the oven and a second rack in the lower third then preheat to 375 degrees F.
Slice each log crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick cookies and arrange on baking sheets, leaving about 1 inch between cookies. Bake, switching the baking sheets between the upper and lower racks about halfway through baking, until light golden brown, about 12 minutes. Cool the cookies on the baking sheet for 10 minutes before transferring to a wire rack to cool completely. Continue baking cookies on cooled baking sheets. DO AHEAD: The cookies can be baked ahead and stored, in an airtight container at room temperature, up to 3 days.

Pumpkin Cheesecake 
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon unbleached all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt, divided
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 cup sugar
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, divided, plus more for foil
1 large egg
2 tablespoons mild-flavored (light) molasses
1 1/2 teaspoons finely grated peeled ginger
1/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
2 1/2 cups whole-milk ricotta
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon mascarpone
1/3 cup sugar
4 large egg yolks
2 large eggs
3/4 teaspoon kosher salt, divided
1 cup canned pure pumpkin purée
1/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/4 cup heavy cream
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
A 9 inch-diameter springform pan; 18 inch-wide heavy-duty foil

Whisk 1 cup all-purpose flour, baking soda, 1/4 teaspoon salt, and cinnamon in a medium bowl; set aside. Using an electric mixer, beat sugar and 6 tablespoons butter in a medium bowl until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in egg, molasses, and ginger. With mixer on low speed, gradually add dry ingredients, beating just to blend. Form dough into a ball; flatten into a disk.
Arrange racks in top and bottom thirds of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Scoop dough by rounded tablespoons and divide between prepared baking sheets, spacing 2 inch apart.
Bake, rotating pans halfway through, until cookies are deep golden-brown, about 15 minutes. Let cookies cool on a wire rack.
Finely grind cookies in a food processor. Measure 1 3/4 cups crumbs for crust; reserve any remaining crumbs for another use. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 month ahead. Store crumbs airtight in freezer. Return to room temperature before using.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line springform pan tightly with foil. Butter foil. Wrap outside of pan tightly with foil (to create a watertight seal during baking), pressing wrinkles flat.
Melt remaining 4 tablespoons butter in a small saucepan. Whisk reserved 1 3/4 cups gingersnap crumbs, remaining 1 tablespoon flour, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and brown sugar in a large bowl. Add melted butter and stir mixture until well combined. Press crumbs into bottom of prepared pan. Freeze for 10 minutes.
Place pan on a baking sheet. Bake until crust is fragrant and set, 20-25 minutes. Transfer pan to a wire rack and let cool.
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Purée ricotta, mascarpone, sugar, egg yolks, 1 egg, and 1/2 teaspoon salt in a food processor until smooth. Scrape most of ricotta filling into a large bowl, leaving about 1/2 cup of filling in processor. Add remaining egg, pumpkin purée, brown sugar, cream, cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, cardamom, and remaining 1/4 teaspoon salt to processor; purée until smooth. Scrape pumpkin filling into a medium bowl. Pour ricotta filling over cooled crust. Spoon pumpkin filling over. Using a spoon, gently swirl the 2 fillings in 6-7 places.
Put cake pan in a large roasting pan. Add hot water to come halfway up sides of cake pan. Cover roasting pan tightly with foil.
Bake cake for 1 hour. Open foil carefully to release steam. Reseal foil and continue baking, opening foil to release steam every 15 minutes, until cheesecake is set around the edges and jiggles slightly in the center when nudged, 45 minutes-1 hour longer.
Remove cake pan from roasting pan. Carefully unwrap outer foil from pan. Chill cake at least 6 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep chilled. Run a thin knife around inside of pan to release cake. Remove pan sides.

Ozark Pudding 
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
2 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 tart cooking apple, peeled, cored, and cut into 1/2-inch pieces (about 1 cup)
1 cup pecan pieces
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
Lightly sweetened whipped cream, for serving

1 Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Butter a 9-inch square baking dish.
2 Whisk together the flour and baking powder in a small bowl. In a large bowl, whisk the eggs and salt until blended and frothy. While whisking vigorously, slowly add the sugar and whisk until thick. Stir in the apples, pecans, and vanilla. Stir in the flour mixture, stirring well to incorporate the dry ingredients.
3 Scrape the batter into the prepared dish and smooth the top. Bake until the top crust is browned and the filling is bubbly around the edges, about 40 minutes. Let cool at least 10 minutes before serving hot or at room temperature with the whipped cream.

Chocolate Sandwich Cookies 
1/2 stick (4 tablespoons) unsalted butter, at room temperature
4 tablespoons vegetable shortening
1 1/4 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1-1 1/2 cups confectioner's sugar
1 recipe Chocolate Wafer Cookies

1. In a large bowl, mix the butter, shortening, and vanilla until well blended. Add the first 1 cup of confectioner's sugar and stir until the sugar is incorporated completely into the butter mixture. The filling should be thick and stiff. Add more confectioner's sugar, one tablespoon at a time, to reach the desired consistency.
2. Place one-half of the chocolate wafer cookies upside down on a level surface. Divide the filling among the cookies and flatten with wet hands or a spoon. Place the other half of the cookies right side up on top of the filling and press down gently to create sandwich cookies.

Cocoa-Carrot Cupcakes with White Chocolate Chips 
2 cups light brown sugar
1 1/2 cups canola oil
4 large eggs, at room temperature
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
5 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1 pound carrots, grated (about 4 cups)
2 cups white chocolate chips

• Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Place paper liners in 24 cupcake/muffin tins.
• Place the sugar, oil, and eggs in a mixer fitted with a paddle and beat until well combined. Place the flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt in a separate bowl and mix well. Add to the oil mixture, scrape down the sides of the bowl, add the carrots and chocolate chips, and mix again. Scrape down the sides of the bowl.
• Using a 2-ounce ice cream scoop or heaping tablespoon, fill the prepared tins. Transfer to the oven and bake until a tester comes out clean and the tops are slightly domed, 22 to 25 minutes. Let cool in the pan for 5 minutes, then transfer cupcakes to a wire rack and set aside to cool.

Peanut Butter and Jelly Ice Cream Sandwiches 
1 recipe Peanut Butter Ice cream
1 recipe Peanut Butter Cookies
3/4 cup jelly or jam, at room temperature

Prepare the peanut butter ice cream and let harden in the freezer for about 6 hours.
Prepare the dough for peanut butter cookies and divide the dough into 16 walnut-size balls. Proceed with the recipe from there, baking the cookies 10 to 12 minutes at 350 degrees. Let cool completely.
To assemble the ice cream sandwiches remove the ice cream from the freezer and let it stand at room temperature for about 5 minutes to soften slightly.
Spread a layer of jam on the flat side of each peanut butter cookie. Place a scoop of peanut butter ice cream in the center of half the cookies, on top of the jam. Top with the remaining cookies, jam side down. Gently squeeze the cookies together until the ice cream and jam come to the edges of the cookies. Put the ice cream sandwiches back in the freezer for at least 15 minutes to harden the jam. These can be made 2 days ahead. Place them in a large plastic storage bag or airtight container and store in freezer.

Chocolate Wafer Cookies 
1 stick plus 6 tablespoons (14 tablespoons) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 cup sugar
1 extra-large egg
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups all-purpose gluten-free flour
1 teaspoon xanthan gum
1/2 cup unsweetened Dutch-processed cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt

1. In a large bowl, beat the butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Add the egg and vanilla, blending well after each addition. Add the flour, xanthan gum, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder, and salt, blending well after each addition. After adding the final ingredient, beat until the mixture becomes thicker and a bit more elastic.
2. Divide the dough into two equal portions, wrap each in plastic wrap, and refrigerate for at least 1 hour, or until firm. Line baking sheets with parchment paper and set them aside.
3. Once the dough has chilled, remove one of the dough portions from the refrigerator, place it between two sheets of plastic wrap, and roll into a round shape about 1/8 inch thick. Repeat with the other portion of the dough. Place all of the dough back in the refrigerator, still wrapped in plastic wrap, and chill for another 15 to 20 minutes or until firm again.
4. Once the rolled-out dough is chilled, working with one portion at a time, remove and replace one piece of plastic wrap, and remove the plastic wrap from the other side. Using a 2-inch round cookie cutter, cut the dough into circles as close together as possible. Repeat the process with the other half of the dough. Gather the scraps of dough that remain, roll them flat again, chill, and cut more rounds.
5. Place the rounds about 1 inch apart on prepared baking sheets. Place the baking sheets in the refrigerator to chill while you preheat your oven to 325 degrees F. Once the oven is ready, remove the baking sheets from the refrigerator, set them in the center of the preheated oven, and bake at 325 degrees F for 5 minutes. Rotate the baking sheets 180 degrees and bake 4 to 6 minutes more, until the cookies are firm but not burned.
6. Cool the cookies for 5 to 10 minutes on the baking sheets. If they are too soft once they have cooled for 10 minutes, return them to the oven and bake for another couple minutes for that  inchsnap. inch Once the cookies are baked and cooled enough to be firm, transfer them to a wire rack to cool completely.

Shortbread Cookies 
2 cups whole wheat flour
1/2 cup sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
10 1/2 tablespoons salted butter, room temperature
1 large egg, room temperature
1 large egg yolk, room temperature
3 tablespoons (about) raspberry jam

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Whisk flour, sugar, and baking powder in a large bowl. Add butter; using your fingertips, rub in butter until coarse meal forms. Whisk egg and yolk in a bowl; add to flour mixture; stir just to blend.
Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Measure dough by 2 tablespoonfuls and roll into balls. Place on prepared sheets, spacing 2 inch apart. Make an indentation in center of each ball; fill each with 1/2 teaspoon jam.
Bake cookies until golden, 12-14 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack to cool.

Honey Cake 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon ground clove
3 large eggs
1 cup sugar
1 1/4 cups vegetable oil
1 cup pure honey
3/4 cup lukewarm coffee (brewed, or instant dissolved in water)
1 1/2 teaspoons packed grated orange zest
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons well-stirred canned unsweetened coconut milk (not light)
2 teaspoons light corn syrup
4 ounces bittersweet (60% cacao) chocolate, finely chopped
Flaky sea salt, such as Maldon (optional)
a 10-inch Bundt pan; nonstick baking spray (shake well first; see Cooks' Notes); cake tester or wooden skewer for testing cake doneness

Heat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Generously spray pan, including center tube, with baking spray.
Whisk together flour, baking powder and soda, salt, and spices in a large bowl.
Whisk eggs well in another large bowl and whisk in sugar, oil, honey, coffee, and zest until well combined.
Make a well in the center of the flour mixture and add the honey mixture, then stir with the whisk until the batter is smooth.
Pour batter into pan (it's liquid enough to level itself in the pan), and bake in oven until springy to the touch and a cake tester comes out clean, 45 to 50 minutes.
Let cake cool in the pan on a rack for 20 minutes.
Loosen cake from the pan with a thin rubber spatula, then invert cake onto the rack (see Cooks' Notes) and cool completely.
Bring coconut milk and corn syrup to a simmer in a small heavy pan, stirring until combined.
Remove pan from heat and add chocolate. Let chocolate stand 1 minute, then stir until chocolate is melted and glaze is smooth.
Let glaze stand, stirring occasionally, until thickened slightly, but still pourable.
Transfer cake to a cake plate and slowly pour the chocolate glaze over the top of the cake, letting it drip down the sides. If desired, let the cake stand at room temperature until glaze is set.
Just before serving, sprinkle glaze lightly with flaky sea salt, if using.

The Crows 
3 large egg whites
3/4 cup milk
3/4 tsp pure vanilla extract
2 1/3 cups white all-purpose, cake, or pastry flour
1 tbsp baking powder
1/4 tsp salt
1 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup plus 1 tbsp (4 1/2 oz) unsalted butter, softened
Cornstarch for dusting
12 oz store-bought fondant, colored flesh-colored with 1 to 2 drops peach and a dab of blue paste food coloring
1/2 cup seedless raspberry jam
12 oz Half and Half , colored black with 36 drops black paste food coloring
1 oz Royal Icing , colored red with 4 drops red paste food coloring
60 Maggots

1 Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line a 12-hole muffin pan with 12 large paper cupcake liners. Put the egg whites, 2 tablespoons of the milk, and the vanilla extract in a medium bowl and mix together with a fork.
2 Sift the flour, baking powder, and salt into a large bowl. Stir in the sugar. Add the butter and the remaining milk and, using an electric mixer, beat together until combined. Gradually beat in the egg white mixture. Spoon the batter into the paper liners. Bake for about 20 minutes, turning once halfway through baking, until well risen and firm to the touch. Transfer to a wire rack and let cool.
3 Dust the counter with cornstarch and roll out the fondant to a thickness of 1/8 inch. Using a 2 1/2 to 3-inch round cutter, cut out 12 circle s that will cover the cupcakes.
4 Use a teaspoon to create an indentation in the center of each cupcake and spoon 2 teaspoons raspberry jam into each. Cover each jam circle with a fondant circle.
5 To make the crows, divide the black Half & Half into 12 equal-size pieces. Reserving a tiny amount for the lower beak, roll one piece of the Half & Half into a ball. Squeeze and pinch the top of the ball to form the head. Squeeze, pinch, and flatten the other end of the ball to create the tail. From the head, squeeze and pinch out a long, pointy beak shape. Roll the reserved piece of Half & Half into another beak shape, but curving down at the tip. Attach below the upper beak with water, to make the beak appear open. Repeat to make another 11 crows.
6 With a craft knife, cut a long slit from just inside the edge of the fondant circle to 1/2 inch away from the edge on the opposite edge of the circle. Make a second cut that starts at the same point as the first and is the same length, but ends 1/4 inch apart from the first cut.
7 Pull up the fondant strip to expose the raspberry jam below, then use water to attach the point of the strip to the inside of the crow's beak.
8 Attach the crow to the fondant circle with water. If necessary, anchor the crow to the cupcake with a small piece of toothpick. Using a pastry bag or parchment paper cone fitted with a fine plain piping tip, pipe red Royal Icing eyes onto the crow. Use a craft knife to score crow footprints on the fondant. Place the Maggots in the raspberry jam. Repeat to decorate the remaining cupcakes.

Peanut Butter Cookies 
1 cup creamy peanut butter
1 cup granulated sugar plus more for rolling the cookies in
1 large egg, lightly beaten with a fork
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Line baking sheets with either parchment paper or silicone baking mats.
In a large bowl mix the peanut butter with the 1 cup of sugar, using a wooden spoon. Stir until well blended. Add the egg, baking powder, and vanilla and stir well. Pour some additional sugar in a small bowl. Scoop out 1 tablespoon of the dough and roll it into a ball. Roll the dough ball in some of the remaining sugar and place on the prepared baking sheets. Repeat with the remaining dough, spacing the cookies 2 inches apart.
Using a dinner fork, first stick the tines of the fork in sugar and then gently press the tines down on each dough ball to flatten. Turn the fork 90 degrees and gently press again to make the traditional crosshatch markings of a peanut butter cookie.
Bake the cookies for 10 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool on the baking sheets for 5 minutes. Then, with a spatula, gently transfer the cookies to a wire rack to finish cooling.

Lemon-Lime Basil Shortbread Cookies 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup powdered sugar plus more for pressing cookies
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2 inch cubes
2 tablespoons sliced fresh basil leaves
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon finely grated lime zest
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
Sanding sugar (optional)
Ingredient info: Decorative sanding sugar has large, crunchy crystals; available at specialty foods stores and beryls.com.

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Place flour, 1/2 cup powdered sugar, butter, basil, both zests, lemon juice, and salt in a food processor. Pulse until large, moist clumps form. Measure level tablespoonfuls of dough; roll between your palms to form balls. Place on a large baking sheet, spacing 2 inch apart. Lightly dust the bottom of a flat measuring cup with powdered sugar and press cookies into 2 inch rounds, dusting cup bottom with powdered sugar as needed to prevent sticking. Sprinkle tops of cookies with sanding sugar, if using.
Bake until edges are brown, about 20 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack; let cool.

Red Velvet Whoopie Pies 
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg, at room temperature
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 ounce red food coloring (about 2 tablespoons)
2 cups sweet rice flour blend
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher or fine sea salt
1/2 cup buttermilk
1/2 teaspoon apple cider vinegar
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
6 ounces cream cheese, at room temperature
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature
Pinch of kosher or fine sea salt
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
3 cups confectioners' sugar

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Line baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats.
In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter and sugar together until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add the egg and mix well, scraping down the sides of the bowl with a large spatula. Add the vanilla and food coloring and mix well.
In a separate large mixing bowl, whisk together the sweet rice flour blend, cocoa powder, and salt. With the mixer on low, add half the flour blend mixture, then the buttermilk, and finally the rest of the flour blend mixture to the butter mixture and mix well.
In a small bowl stir the vinegar and baking soda together and then stir into the batter. Using a large spatula, scrape down the bottom and sides of the mixing bowl and make sure all the ingredients are incorporated. Drop the batter onto the prepared baking sheets using a small ice cream scoop or large tablespoon.
Bake the cookies for 7 to 9 minutes, or until the edges are set and the cookies are firm but springy to the touch. Cool on the baking sheets for 5 minutes, then transfer to a wire rack to cool completely. While the cookies are cooling, make the filling.
In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment on medium speed, cream together the cream cheese, butter, salt, and vanilla until smooth. Turn the mixer off. Sift in the confectioners' sugar and starting with the mixer on low speed and slowly increasing the speed to medium, mix well.
With your hand, brush the crumbs off the bottom (flat side) of a cookie, spread with a generous amount of filling, then top with another cookie, flat side down on the filling. Repeat with remaining cookies and filling.
The cookies should be stored in the refrigerator but are best eaten un-chilled, so take them out of the refrigerator 10 t0 15 minutes prior to serving.

Orange-Blossom-Honey Madeleines 
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
2 large eggs
1/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons orange blossom honey
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon finely grated orange zest
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, cooled, plus more for molds
One 16-cookie madeleine pan with 3x2 inch molds

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt into a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat eggs and sugar in a large bowl until pale yellow and thick, about 4 minutes. Beat in honey, vanilla, and orange zest. Gently fold in dry ingredients. Add 5 tablespoons melted butter; gently fold into batter. Press plastic wrap directly onto surface of batter; chill for at least 3 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled.
Position a rack in center of oven; preheat to 400 degrees F. Lightly brush madeleine molds with butter. Place pan on a baking sheet. Drop 1 scant tablespoon batter into each mold. Bake until golden and a tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 10 minutes.
Remove pan from oven, invert, and quickly knock madeleines out of pan. Serve warm on their own or with Ginger-Yogurt Mousse with Pistachio Meringue .

Amaranth-Walnut Cookies with Brandy 
4 ounces toasted walnut pieces (about 1 slightly heaped cup)
1/2 cup sugar
3/4 cup white whole wheat flour (3 1/8 ounces)
1/4 cup amaranth flour (1 ounce)
1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
7 tablespoons unsalted butter (3 1/2 ounces), softened
1 large egg yolk, at room temperature
1 tablespoon brandy
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
About 6 tablespoons amaranth seeds, for rolling (optional)
About 32 toasted walnut halves or pieces

1 Place the 4 ounces of walnuts and 2 tablespoons of the sugar in the bowl of a food processor fitted with the metal blade. Process until the mixture looks sandy and the nuts are finely ground, about 15 seconds.
2 Whisk together the white whole wheat flour, amaranth flour, and salt in a medium bowl. In a large bowl, beat the butter with an electric mixer at medium speed until smooth, about 30 seconds. Gradually add the remaining sugar and beat until fluffy and smooth, 1 to 2 minutes, scraping the sides with a rubber spatula as needed. Add the egg yolk, brandy, and vanilla and beat until well blended, about 30 seconds. Reduce the speed to low and beat in the nut mixture, then gradually add the flour mixture until it is just incorporated. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap and chill until the dough is firm, at least 3 hours or overnight.
3 Place a rack 1 notch below the center of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large rimless baking sheets with parchment paper. Place the amaranth seeds in a small bowl.
4 Pinch off walnut-size pieces of the firm dough and roll them between your palms into smooth 1-inch balls. Roll each ball in amaranth seeds, gently pressing to adhere if needed, and place on the baking sheet, leaving 2 inches between pieces. Make an indentation with your thumb in the center of each ball, gently pressing it down about a third of its height, and then lightly press a walnut half into the center.
5 Bake, 1 sheet at a time, until the cookies just turn golden brown around the edges and firm up but still yield to gentle pressure, 17 to 18 minutes. Remove from the oven and carefully slide the parchment paper with the cookies onto a wire rack to cool. The cookies will crisp as they cool.

Root Beer Float Gobs 
4 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups sugar, sifted
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened, cut in 1/2-inch cubes
2 eggs, separated, at room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup buttermilk, at room temperature
2 tablespoons sour cream
3 tablespoons root beer extract
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened, cut in 1/2-inch cubes
12 tablespoons cream cheese, cut in 1/2-inch cubes
2 tablespoons vanilla extract
1 large vanilla bean, seeds scraped and reserved
2 tablespoons sour cream
1 to 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2 cups confectioners' sugar, sifted

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line three 8-by-13-inch cookie sheets with parchment paper.
2. In a large bowl, sift together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Whisk the dry ingredients until they're evenly distributed.
3. In another large bowl, cream the sugar and butter with a mixer on medium speed. Add the egg yolks to the creamed ingredients, and mix on medium. Then add the egg whites and vanilla, and mix on medium-high until the mixture looks like dense pudding.
4. Alternate adding the dry ingredients and the buttermilk to the egg mixture, mixing on medium speed after each addition. Then add the sour cream, and mix well. Add the root beer extract and mix on high. Add more sour cream, 1 tablespoon at a time, if the batter is too thick.
5. Using a tablespoon or pastry bag, drop 1 1/2-inch rounds of batter on the prepared cookie sheets, leaving 1 inch between each round. Bake them approximately 8 minutes, or until the gob domes have risen. Remove the gobs to a wire rack to cool.
1. Cream together the butter and cream cheese with a mixer on medium speed.
2. Add the vanilla extract, vanilla bean seeds, sour cream, 1 tablespoon of lemon juice, and the confectioners' sugar, and beat on medium-high; scrape the bowl with a spatula to reincorporate the ingredients if necessary. Taste and add another tablespoon of lemon juice if you like.
3. To frost the gobs, flip the baked gob domes over on a cookie sheet and match up pairs of similarly shaped domes. Add 1 tablespoon of filling to the flat side of an overturned dome, then place another dome on top, sandwich-style. Allow the gobs to fully set by refrigerating them on a baking sheet for at least 1 hour. Wrap the gobs in plastic wrap to prevent them from drying out.

Skillet Peach Cobbler 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 teaspoons salt
2 large eggs, beaten to blend
1 1/2 cups crème fraîche, divided
1 cup whole milk
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
2 pounds peeled, pitted peaches, each cut into 1/2 inch wedges (about 2 cups)
1 cup Lord Grey's Peach Preserves
1 cup chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Whisk first 4 ingredients in a medium bowl. Whisk eggs, 1/2 cup crème fraîche, milk, and vanilla in a medium bowl. Add egg mixture to dry ingredients; whisk until smooth. Melt butter in a 12 inch castiron skillet over medium heat. Swirl pan to coat with butter. Remove from heat.
Add batter to pan. Scatter fresh peaches over, then spoon dollops of preserves evenly over batter. Bake until a tester inserted into center of cobbler comes out clean, 45-50 minutes. Let cool slightly. Meanwhile, whip cream in a medium bowl to form soft peaks. Fold in sugar and remaining 1 cup crème fraîche. Cut cobbler into wedges and serve with whipped cream mixture.

Blackberry Buttermilk Cake 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus more for pan and parchment
2 1/3 cups cake flour (sifted, then measured) plus more for pan
2 1/2 cups (10 ounces) fresh blackberries
1/4 cup plus 1 1/3 cups sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
3 large eggs, room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 teaspoons finely grated orange zest
1 cup well-shaken buttermilk
Powdered sugar (for dusting)
Use a 9 inch-10 inch-diameter springform pan.

Position a rack in middle of oven and preheat to 350 degrees . Butter pan; line bottom with a round of parchment paper. Butter parchment. Dust with flour; tap out excess. Arrange berries in a single layer in bottom of pan; sprinkle evenly with 1/4 cup sugar.
Sift 2 1/3 cups flour, baking powder, salt, and baking soda into a medium bowl; set aside. Using an electric mixer, beat 3/4 cup butter and remaining 1 1/3 cups sugar in a large bowl at medium-high speed, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl, until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla and zest. Reduce speed to low; beat in flour mixture in 3 additions, alternating with buttermilk in 2 additions, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating just until incorporated. Pour batter over berries in pan; smooth top.
Bake until cake is golden brown and a tester inserted into the center comes out clean, about 1 hour 25 minutes. Let cool in pan set on a wire rack for 15 minutes, then run a thin, sharp knife around edge of pan to loosen. Remove pan sides. Invert cake onto rack and remove pan bottom; peel off parchment. Dust top generously with powdered sugar and let cool completely.

Candied Rose Petal and Chocolate Cookies 
12 tablespoons (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup light brown sugar
1 large egg
1 egg yolk
2 tablespoons heavy cream
1/2 cup rose spread
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups finely chopped semisweet chocolate

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line a cookie sheet with parchment paper. In a large microwave-safe bowl, melt butter, sugar, and brown sugar together in a microwave for 15 to 30 seconds on low power. Let the butter-sugar mixture cool just a bit then blend in the egg and egg yolk. Add the heavy cream and rose spread. Stir until just combined and set aside. Do not overmix.
2. In a medium bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda, and salt and carefully fold into the wet mixture. Gently add the chocolate, mixing it well. Freeze the dough just until cold and firm, about 5 minutes.
3. Using a 2-ounce ice cream scoop, drop the dough 3 inches apart onto prepared cookie sheet. Bake for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the edges of the cookies begin to brown. Transfer the cookies to a rack to cool.

Brown Sugar Cookies 
1 1/2 sticks (6 ounces) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 1/4 cups dark brown sugar
1 large egg, at room temperature
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon

• Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F.
• Place the butter and sugar in the bowl of a mixer fitted with a paddle and beat until smooth and creamy. Add the egg and beat well. Scrape down the sides of the bowl. Place the flour, baking soda, salt, and spices in a separate bowl and mix well. Add to the butter mixture and beat until everything is well incorporated. Scrape down the sides of the bowl and beat again.
• Drop large teaspoonfuls of dough onto an unbuttered cookie sheet about 2 inches apart and bake until the edges are just brown, 8 to 12 minutes. For crispy cookies, let cool on the sheet. Let the cookie sheet cool completely between batches and repeat with the remaining dough.

Il Falconiere: Steamed Chocolate Cake with Vanilla Sauce 
8 ounces (1 stick) butter, plus more for the ramekins
3/4 cup flour, plus more for the ramekins
1 cup fine sugar
4 eggs
3 tablespoons rum (or Tia Maria)
2 tablespoons strong coffee
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup ground cacao (high-quality cocoa)
4 pears, peeled and diced (optional)
Vanilla Sauce (recipe follows)
Chocolate bar or chocolate-covered coffee beans
1 quart heavy cream
1/2 vanilla pod
8 egg yolks
4 tablespoons fine sugar

Preheat the oven to 250 degrees F. Butter and flour 10 ramekins and set aside.
Beat butter and sugar to a soft cream. Add eggs, beating them in one at a time. Add rum and coffee. Sift flour, baking powder, and cacao into a bowl, then incorporate this into the butter mixture. Gently fold in the pears, if using. Pour into the prepared ramekins, filling halfway. Bake in a bain-marie by placing ramekins in a baking dish and filling it halfway with boiling water. Bake for 10 minutes, then increase temperature to 350 degrees F and continue baking until set, about 15 minutes.
Unmold onto individual plates or simply serve in the ramekins. Spoon vanilla sauce over the cakes, and garnish with curls of chocolate (use a vegetable peeler) or chocolate-covered coffee beans.
Heat the cream and vanilla pod to boiling, then quickly reduce heat. In a separate bowl, thoroughly beat together the yolks and sugar. Using a wooden spoon, stir the eggs into the cream and continue cooking on low, stirring constantly, for 5 minutes, until mixture slightly thickens and coats the spoon.

Chocolate Tiramisu 
1 1/2 cups espresso or strong coffee
1/4 cup sugar
1 3/4 cups mascarpone cheese, divided
2 tablespoons plus 1/2 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
4 large egg yolks
1 cup chilled heavy whipping cream, divided
6 ounces bittersweet chocolate (do not exceed 61% cacao), chopped, plus more for shaving
About 48 soft ladyfingers

Stir espresso and sugar in a small bowl until sugar dissolves; set aside.
Combine 1 cup mascarpone, 2 tablespoons sugar, and vanilla in a small bowl and whisk to blend; cover and chill.
Place 1 tablespoon water in a small bowl. Sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand until gelatin softens, 10-15 minutes. Whisk the remaining sugar, yolks, 1/4 cup cream, and 1/4 cup water in a medium metal bowl to blend. Place bowl over a large saucepan of boiling water (do not let bottom of bowl touch water) and whisk constantly until custard thickens and temperature reaches 160 degrees  on an instant-read thermometer, 3-4 minutes. Remove bowl; add gelatin mixture and whisk until dissolved, 15-20 seconds. Return bowl over water, add chocolate, and whisk until almost melted, about 30 seconds.
Set bowl in a large bowl of ice water and whisk until chocolate is melted and custard is cool, 5-6 minutes. Whisk in the remaining mascarpone. In another medium bowl, beat remaining 3/4 cup chilled cream until firm peaks form. Fold cream into custard in 2 additions to make a chocolate mousse.
Spread 1/4 cup chocolate mousse in bottom of each of eight 1-cup teacups or ramekins. Dunk ladyfingers in the espresso syrup and arrange in a single layer on top of the mousse, about 2 to 3 ladyfingers per cup. Repeat layering with chocolate mousse and soaked ladyfingers. Spread 2 tablespoons mascarpone topping over ladyfingers. Garnish with chocolate shavings and serve.

Chocolate Chip Madeleines 
10 tablespoons unsalted butter, plus extra for greasing
2 tablespoons of your favorite honey
3 extra-large free-range eggs
2/3 cup superfine sugar
1 cup self-rising flour, plus extra for dusting
3 1/2 oz dark (70% cocoa solids) chocolate, chopped into very small pieces

Melt the butter and honey in a small saucepan and simmer until syrupy—about 8 minutes. Pour into a bowl and set aside to cool. Don't worry if the mixture splits slightly.
Using an electric stand or hand-held mixer, whisk the eggs and sugar together for around 8 minutes or until the mixture has tripled in volume.
Fold in the flour then the butter mixture and leave until cold. Stir the chopped chocolate into the cake mixture. Rest in the fridge for a couple of hours.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Butter and flour the madeleine molds. Put a teaspoonful of mixture into each mold and bake for about 15 minutes or until just firm to the touch and golden brown.
Best served warm.

Qatayef 
1 teaspoon sugar
1/2 teaspoon active dry yeast
1 1/4 cups warm water
2 1/2 cups whole-wheat flour
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon salt
Vegetable oil for frying
1 cup chopped walnuts
1 cup goat cheese
2 tablespoons honey
1 tablespoon orange-blossom water
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup water
3/4 cup light corn syrup
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 tablespoons orange-blossom water

Stir the sugar and yeast into the warm water. Let sit for 10 minutes, until foamy. Combine the whole-wheat flour, all-purpose flour, and salt. Add the yeast mixture, mix well, and let sit in a warm place for 30 minutes.
Combine the walnuts, goat cheese, honey, and orange-blossom water.
Combine the sugar and water in a saucepan over medium heat, and heat, stirring, until the sugar is dissolved. Add the corn syrup and cinnamon and continue to cook, stirring, until thickened, 7 to 10 minutes. Remove from the heat and stir in the orange-blossom water.
Butter a large griddle, and set it over low heat. Fill a frying pan with 1 inch of oil, and set it over medium heat. Line plates with paper towels for draining the fried cakes.
Drop a small piece of bread into the oil; when it browns, the oil is ready for frying. Pour the batter onto the buttered griddle in 4- to 5-inch round cakes. When bubbles form in the tops of the cakes, transfer the cakes to a plate (do not flip them). Spread 1 1/2 tablespoons of the walnut-cheese filling on each cake, on the uncooked side. Fold the cake in half and press the edges together to seal.
Drop the cakes into the hot oil in the frying pan. Fry the cakes for 15 to 20 seconds, or until golden on one side, then flip them and cook until the other side is golden. Drain on paper towels.
Transfer the cakes to serving plates, and serve with the syrup.
Palestinian Coconut Qatayef Replace the goat cheese with unsweetened shredded coconut and the orange-blossom water with lemon juice.

Glorious Red, White, and Blue Cake 
2 1/2 cups sifted cake flour, not self-rising (sift before measuring)
1/4 cup unsweetened natural cocoa (such as Hershey's; not Dutch process or extra-dark cocoa)
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
1 cup vegetable oil
2 large eggs
1 (1-ounce) bottle (2 tablespoons) red food coloring
1 1/2 teaspoons white or cider vinegar
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup sour cream mixed with 1/4 cup water
1 1/3 cups sifted cake flour, not self-rising (sift before measuring)
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 large egg whites
1/4 cup sour cream mixed with 2 tablespoons water
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1/3 cup vegetable oil
1 tablespoon grated lemon zest (best done with Microplane zester or grater)
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 1/2 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese (20 ounces total), softened
2 1/2 sticks (1 1/4 cups) unsalted butter, softened
2 1/2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 1/4 cups confectioners' sugar
1 pint (8 ounces) strawberries, preferably small; halve or quarter if large
1 pint (12 ounces) blueberries
1/2 pint (6 ounces) blackberries
2 or 3 (9-inch) round cake pans
large sifter or sieve
electric stand mixer (optional)
pastry brush
offset metal spatula (for frosting cake)

Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch round cake pans, then line bottoms with rounds of wax paper. Butter paper and dust pans with some additional flour, knocking out excess.
Resift cake flour together with cocoa, baking soda, and salt into a bowl.
Beat butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer (fitted with paddle attachment if using stand mixer) at medium-high speed until combined well, then add oil and beat until very pale and creamy, about 3 minutes.
Add eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in food coloring, vinegar, and vanilla extract.
Reduce speed to low and mix in flour mixture and sour cream mixture in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture, and mixing until batter is smooth.
Divide batter between pans (about 3 cups in each) and smooth tops. Rap pans on counter a couple of times to expel any air bubbles. Bake in middle of oven until a wooden pick comes out clean and cake begins to pull away from sides of pans, 25 to 30 minutes. Keep oven on.
Cool layers in pans on racks 10 minutes, then run a thin knife around edge of pans. Invert layers onto racks and peel off wax paper. Cool layers completely.
Butter one 9-inch round cake pan, then line bottom with wax paper. Butter paper and dust pan with some additional flour, knocking out excess.
Resift cake flour together with baking soda and salt into a bowl. Whisk egg whites in another bowl with sour cream mixture until combined.
Beat butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer (fitted with paddle attachment if using stand mixer) at medium-high speed until combined well, then add oil and beat until very pale and creamy, about 3 minutes. Beat in zest and vanilla extract.
Reduce speed to low and mix in flour mixture and sour cream mixture in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing until batter is smooth. Transfer batter to pan and spread evenly. Rap pan on counter a couple of times to expel any air bubbles.
Bake in middle of oven until a wooden pick comes out clean and cake begins to pull away from side of pan, 25 to 30 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes, then run a thin knife around edge of pan. Invert layer onto rack and peel off wax paper. Cool layer completely.
Beat together cream cheese and butter in a large bowl with an electric mixture until creamy and smooth. Beat in lemon juice, vanilla extract, and salt.
Sift confectioners' sugar into a bowl and add to cream cheese mixture. Mix on low speed until incorporated, then increase speed to medium-high and beat until smooth.
Brush loose crumbs from cake layers with a pastry brush.
Put a red velvet layer, bottom side up, on a cake plate or stand. Spread 1 cup of frosting over layer. Cover with white layer, bottom side up, and spread with another cup of frosting. Top with second red velvet layer, bottom side up.
Spread a thin layer of frosting around sides and over top of cake. (This is called crumb-coating. It tamps down any loose crumbs to keep them out of the top layer of frosting and fills in any crevices. This is particularly important with red velvet cake layers.) Chill or briefly freeze cake just until frosting is firm.
Spread sides and top of cake with remaining frosting. Chill or briefly freeze cake just until frosting is firm.
Toss together fruits in a bowl. Let cake come to room temperature before serving and top with about 1 1/2 cups fruit. Serve remaining fruit on the side.

Chocolate-Praline Cake in a Jar 
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups packed light brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
6 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups sifted cake flour
2/3 cup sour cream
2/3 cup brewed coffee (I just use the morning's leftover coffee)
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
3/4 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1/2 cup water
1 cup powdered sugar
1/2 cup pecan halves or pieces
Ten to twelve 1/2-pint canning jars
Rimmed baking sheet or roasting pan

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Place 10 to 12 1/2-pint glass canning jars on a rimmed baking sheet, evenly arranged with space between them. (If you have a Silpat liner, place it under the jars to prevent them from sliding around.)
To make the cakes, in a mixer fitted with a whisk attachment, beat the butter until smooth. Add the brown sugar and eggs and mix until fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add the vanilla, cocoa, baking soda, and salt and mix until combined. Add half of the flour, then half of the sour cream, and mix until combined. Repeat with the remaining flour and sour cream. Drizzle in the coffee and mix until smooth. The batter will be thin, like heavy cream.
Pour the batter into the jars, filling them halfway. Bake until the tops of the cakes are firm to the touch, about 25 minutes.*
To make the topping, melt the butter in a medium saucepan over medium heat, then add the brown sugar and 1?2 cup water and stir with a wooden spoon until the sugar is dissolved, 2 to 3 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the powdered sugar until combined, then return to the heat and bring to a boil. Stir in the nuts.
Pour the praline topping over the cakes to cover, working quickly, because the praline hardens quickly as it cools. Let the cakes cool completely if they aren't already, before screwing on jar lids.**
Do-Aheads
*The cakes can be made ahead, cooled, covered, and kept at room temperature for 2 days or in the refrigerator for up to 4 days.
**The finished cakes will keep for up to 4 days at room temperature.

Almond Cake 
1/2 pound (1 3/4 cups) blanched whole almonds
6 large eggs, separated
1 1/4 cups superfine sugar
Grated zest of 1 orange
Grated zest of 1 lemon
4 drops almond extract
Confectioners' sugar for dusting

Finely grind the almonds in a food processor.
With an electric mixer, beat the egg yolks with the sugar to a smooth pale cream. Beat in the zests and almond extract. Add the ground almonds and mix very well.
With clean beaters, beat the egg whites in a large bowl until stiff peaks form. Fold them into the egg and almond mixture (the mixture is thick, so that you will need to turn it over quite a bit into the egg whites).
Grease an 11-inch springform pan, preferably nonstick, with butter and dust it with flour. Pour in the cake batter, and bake into a preheated 350 degrees F for 40 minutes, or until it feels firm to the touch. Let cool before turning out.
Just before serving, dust the top of the cake with confectioners' sugar. Or, if you like, cut a St. James cross out of paper. Place it in the middle of the cake, and dust the cake with confectioners' sugar, then remove the paper.

Rainbow Cookies 
2 tablespoons plus 2 cups unsalted butter, cubed, at room temperature
6 large eggs, separated
1 1/3 cups sugar, divided
12 ounces almond paste (not marzipan), chopped
2 3/4 cups plus 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon red food coloring
1 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup orange marmalade, heated, strained
4 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped, melted
1 teaspoon green food coloring
3 13x9x2 inch metal baking pans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  Line three 13x9x2 inch metal baking pans with foil, leaving overhang; grease with 2 tablespoon butter; set aside. Put egg whites in bowl of a stand mixer fitted with a whisk; beat until soft peaks form. Slowly add 1/3 cup sugar, beating until stiff peaks form. Transfer to a large bowl; cover; chill. Using the paddle attachment, beat almond paste and remaining sugar on medium-low until incorporated, 4-5 minutes. Increase speed to medium-high; gradually add remaining butter. Beat until fluffy. Beat in yolks, then flour and salt. Fold in whites in 2 additions. Divide batter evenly among 3 bowls. Mix red coloring into 1 bowl and green coloring into second bowl; leave third bowl plain. Spread 1 bowl of batter into each prepared pan; smooth tops. Bake, rotating pans halfway through, until just set, 9-11 minutes. Let cool in pans.
With a pastry brush, spread half of marmalade over green cake. Using foil overhang, lift plain layer out of pan. Invert onto green layer; discard foil. Brush remaining marmalade over plain layer. Lift red layer out of pan; invert onto plain layer and cover cake with foil.
Top with a 13x9x2 inch pan. Weigh down pan with several heavy canned goods to compress cake layers. Refrigerate at least 4 hours and up to 1 day.
Remove cans, top pan, and foil. Transfer cake to a waxed paper-lined baking sheet.
Spread half of chocolate over cake in a thin layer. Freeze for 10 minutes. Cover with waxed paper, invert the baking sheet on top, and flip cake. Uncover and glaze with remaining chocolate. Freeze 10 additional minutes.
Trim cake to 12x8 inch. Cut crosswise into six 2 inch-wide strips. Cut each strip crosswise into 96 inch-wide cookies. Store in an airtight container.

Black Sesame Lace Cookies 
7 tablespoons (7/8 stick/100 grams) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/2 cup (100 grams) granulated sugar
7 tablespoons (100 grams) packed light brown sugar
1/2 cup (70 grams) unbleached all-purpose flour
1/3 cup (80 grams) fresh orange juice (about 1 1/2 oranges)
3 tablespoons black sesame seeds

Using a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment (or a handheld mixer or a wooden spoon), cream the butter until creamy and light, about 2 minutes. Add the granulated sugar and brown sugar and continue to beat on medium speed for about 1 minute, or until combined. Turn the speed down to low and add the flour and mix until well combined. Slowly drizzle in the orange juice and mix for about 30 seconds; the mixture will look a little broken, which is okay. Mix in the sesame seeds.
Transfer the batter to an airtight container and refrigerate for at least 4 hours or for up to 1 week.
When ready to bake cookies, position a rack in the center of the oven, and heat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line a very flat baking sheet with parchment paper. (This batter spreads like crazy, so you have to use an extremely flat baking sheet in order for the cookies to bake in circles and not amoeba-like shapes.)
Pinch off rounded tablespoon-size balls of dough and place on the prepared baking sheet, spacing them at least 3 inches apart to allow for spreading.
Bake for 16 to 18 minutes, or until the cookies are completely golden brown throughout. Let cool completely (they must be firm to the touch) on the baking sheet on a wire rack. Gently remove the cookies from the parchment.
The cookies can be stored, in layers separated with sheets of parchment paper or waxed paper, in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 3 days.

Olive-Oil Cake with Candied Orange 
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup orange blossom honey
3 tablespoons green cardamom pods, crushed
1 small orange, thinly sliced
1/2 cup olive oil plus more for brushing
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup semolina flour (pasta flour)
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup sugar, divided
3 large eggs, separated
2/3 cup plain whole-milk yogurt
1 1/2 teaspoon grated orange zest
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Chopped unsalted pistachios, lightly toasted
**Ingredient Info:**Semolina flour (pasta flour) is available at better supermarkets and at Italian markets.
9 inch-diameter springform pan

Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Bring sugar, honey, cardamom, and 3 cups water to a boil in a medium heavy saucepan, stirring until sugar dissolves. Add orange slices. Reduce heat to medium-low; simmer, turning orange slices occasionally, until tender and syrup is reduced to 3 1/4 cups, about 40 minutes. Arrange orange slices in a single layer on prepared baking sheet; remove cardamom pods and seeds. Strain syrup. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover syrup and orange slices separately; chill. Return orange slices to room temperature and rewarm syrup slightly before using.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Brush pan with oil. Whisk both flours and next 4 ingredients in a medium bowl. Using an electric mixer, beat 1/4 cup sugar and 1/2 cup oil in a large bowl for 1 minute. Beat in yolks, then flour mixture. Beat in yogurt, zest, and vanilla. Using clean, dry beaters, beat egg whites in another medium bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually beat in remaining 1/4 cup sugar until firm peaks form. Fold egg whites into batter just to blend in 2 additions. Transfer to prepared pan; smooth top.
Bake cake until a toothpick inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Pierce hot cake all over with a metal skewer. Slowly drizzle 3/4 cup warm syrup all over. When syrup is absorbed, slowly pour 3/4 cup more syrup over. Reserve remaining syrup for serving. Let cake cool in pan on a wire rack. Run a thin knife around edge of pan to release cake. Remove pan sides. Arrange candied orange slices over. Sprinkle pistachios over. Cut into wedges and serve drizzled with more syrup.

Classic Coconut Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/3 cups (loosely packed) sweetened flaked coconut
1 cup buttermilk
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
5 large egg yolks
4 large egg whites, room temperature
3 1/3 cups powdered sugar
1 8-ounce package philadelphia-brand cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup (about) sweetened flaked coconut

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray; line bottom of pans with parchment paper rounds.
Mix flour and coconut in medium bowl. Whisk buttermilk and baking soda in small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add egg yolks and beat to blend. Add flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with buttermilk mixture in 2 additions, beating just to blend after each addition. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites and 1/4 teaspoon salt in another large bowl until peaks form. Add 1/3 of egg white mixture to batter; fold into batter just to blend. Fold in remaining egg white mixture in 2 additions. Divide batter between pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Run small sharp knife around sides of cake pans. Invert cakes onto racks. Carefully peel off parchment. Cool cakes completely.
Using electric mixer, beat sugar, cream cheese, butter, and vanilla in large bowl until blended. Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on plate. Spread with 1 cup frosting. Place second layer, flat side up, atop frosting. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Sprinkle some of coconut over top of cake; pat more coconut on sides of cake. DO AHEAD: can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.

Chocolate Biscuit Cake 
1/2 teaspoon butter, for greasing pan
8 ounces McVities rich tea biscuits
1/2 stick (4 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup granulated sugar
4 ounces dark chocolate
1 egg, beaten
8 ounces dark chocolate, for icing
1 ounce white chocolate, for decoration

1. Lightly grease a small (such as 6 x 2 1/2-inch) cake ring with 1/2 teaspoon butter, and place on a parchment-lined tray. Break each of the biscuits into almond-sized pieces by hand and set aside. Cream the butter and sugar in a bowl until the mixture is a light lemon color.
2. Melt the 4 ounces of dark chocolate in a double boiler. Add the butter and sugar mixture to the chocolate, stirring constantly. Add the egg and continue stirring. Fold in the biscuit pieces until they are all coated with the chocolate mixture.
3. Spoon the chocolate biscuit mixture into the prepared cake ring. Try to fill all of the gaps on the bottom of the ring, because this will be the top when it is unmolded. Chill the cake in the refrigerator for at least three hours.
4. Remove the cake from the refrigerator, and let it stand while you melt the 8 ounces of dark chocolate for icing. Slide the ring off the cake and turn the cake upside down onto a cooling rack. Pour 8 ounces of melted dark chocolate over the cake, and smooth the tope and sides using a butter knife or offset spatula. Allow the chocolate icing to set at room temperature. Carefully run a knife around the bottom of the cake where it has stuck to the cooling rack, and transfer the cake to a cake dish. Melt the white chocolate and drizzle on top of the cake in a decorative pattern.

Mini Chocolate Cakewiches 
1/2 cup reduced-fat cream cheese, at room temperature
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
1/2 cup nonfat plain Greek yogurt
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Vegetable oil cooking spray
3/4 cup unbleached all-purpose flour
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder, plus more for dusting
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup granulated sugar
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 egg white
1/2 cup skim milk, divided

Beat cream cheese and confectioners' sugar in a bowl with an electric mixer on high until smooth. Add yogurt and vanilla; beat until well combined. Coat 3 baking sheets with cooking spray. Heat oven to 400 degrees F. Whisk flour, cocoa powder and baking soda in a second bowl. Beat sugar and butter with an electric mixer on high in a third bowl until combined; add egg white and beat until mixture is thick and pale yellow. Add half the flour mixture to sugar and butter mixture; beat until just combined. Add 1/4 cup milk; beat on low speed until combined. Repeat with remaining flour mixture and remaining 1/4 cup milk. Spoon batter into a large resealable bag; squeeze batter into a corner of the bag and clip 1/4 inch off corner to make a piping bag. Squeeze 16 lines of batter, 4 inches long and 1 inch apart, onto each baking sheet. Bake until centers spring back to the touch, 5 to 7 minutes. Cool on a wire rack. Spread half the cakes with cream cheese filling; top with a second cake to make sandwiches and dust with cocoa powder, if desired. Serve immediately, or store in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.

Gâteau de Sirop 
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
3 large eggs
1 3/4 cups 100% pure cane syrup (such as Steen's)
3/4 cup evaporated milk
1/4 cup sour cream
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
Additional 100% pure cane syrup
Powdered sugar (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13 x 9 x 2-inch metal baking pan. Sift flour, baking soda, cinnamon, nutmeg, and 1 teaspoon salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth. Add sugar and beat until blended. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time. Beat in 1 3/4 cups syrup, then evaporated milk and sour cream (batter may look curdled). Add dry ingredients and beat on lowest speed until blended. Transfer cake batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 50 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover pan tightly with foil and store cake at room temperature.
Beat cream in medium bowl until peaks form. Cut cake into squares. Place on plates. Spoon whipped cream alongside; drizzle with additional syrup. Dust with powdered sugar, if desired

Rum Raisin Shortbread 
1/2 cup dark rum
1 cup currants
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup confectioners' sugar
1/2 teaspoon finely grated orange zest
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup finely shredded unsweetened coconut
1 teaspoon coarse salt

Combine rum and currants in an airtight container; let sit at room temperature overnight. Drain; reserving 2 tablespoons rum.
Put butter, confectioners' sugar, and zest in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment. Beat until creamy and smooth, about 2 minutes. Add vanilla and reserved rum. Beat well, scraping down the sides of the bowl as necessary. Reduce speed to low. Add flour, coconut, and salt, and beat for 3 minutes. Stir in currants by hand. Divide dough in half and form each into a log about 1/2 inches in diameter; wrap in parchment, and refrigerate 1 hour (or up to 3 days).
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Remove dough from parchment; slice into 1/4-inch-thick rounds.
Place on parchment paper–lined baking sheets, spacing about 1 inch apart. Bake until pale golden, about 20 minutes, rotating sheets halfway through. Transfer to wire racks to cool completely. Cookies can be stored in airtight containers at room temperature up to 1 week.

Espresso Pound Cake with Cranberries and Pecans 
1 cup plus 6 tablespoons unbleached all purpose flour
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon or 1/2 teaspoon ground allspice or ground cardamom
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
4 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 tablespoon plus 2 teaspoons instant espresso powder or instant coffee
1 cup chopped toasted pecans, walnuts, hazelnuts, or almonds, divided
1 cup dried sweetened cranberries or dried unsweetened cherries or blueberries, divided
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
2 tablespoons milk

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 9 x 5 x 3-inch metal loaf pan. Dust pan with flour, tapping out excess.
Whisk flour, cornstarch, cinnamon, baking powder, and 1/4 teaspoon salt in medium bowl. Whisk eggs and vanilla in small bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter, sugar, brown sugar, and 1 tablespoon espresso powder in large bowl until fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. With mixer running, gradually add egg mixture. Add flour mixture in 2 additions, beating on low speed just to blend after each addition. Beat batter 30 seconds on medium speed. Add 3/4 cup pecans and 3/4 cup cranberries; beat just to incorporate evenly. Transfer batter to pan.
Bake cake until top is golden and toothpick inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Cool in pan on rack 5 minutes. Invert cake; remove pan. Turn cake top side up; cool on rack.
Mix powdered sugar, milk, and 2 teaspoons espresso powder in medium bowl. Spread glaze over top of cake, allowing some to drip down sides. Sprinkle 1/4 cup nuts and 1/4 cup cranberries over. Let stand until glaze sets, about 20 minutes. DO AHEAD: Can be made 5 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Mocha-Fudge Cake 
1 1/2 cups brown sugar
4 tablespoons butter
3 eggs
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate, melted
3/4 cup sour cream
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 cup hot coffee
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon salt
Vegetable oil cooking spray

Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Beat sugar and butter in a bowl until combined. Beat in eggs, then chocolate, then sour cream. Sift flour and baking soda in a bowl; add to chocolate mixture. Beat in coffee, vanilla and salt until combined. Coat a 9 inch x 13 inch pan with cooking spray; pour in batter. Bake until a toothpick inserted in center comes out clean, 35 minutes.

Key Lime Pudding Cakes 
6 (6-ounce) ramekins or custard cups
Electric stand mixer or a handheld mixer and medium bowl
Rubber spatula
9- by 13-inch baking pan that will hold the ramekins
2 tablespoons plus 1/2 cup granulated sugar
2 large eggs
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/4 cup unbleached all-purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon kosher salt
1 cup whole milk
1/4 cup Key lime juice
1/4 cup sliced almonds

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F and put the oven rack in the middle of the oven.
2. Grease the insides of the ramekins with nonstick cooking spray or butter and evenly coat with the 2 tablespoons sugar (see headnote). Separate the eggs into 2 bowls.
3. Using the stand mixer, or a handheld mixer and medium bowl, first on low speed and then gradually increasing the speed to medium, beat the butter and the 1/2 cup sugar together until smooth. Scrape down the side of the bowl with the rubber spatula. Beat in the egg yolks one at a time, mixing well after each addition, stopping once or twice to scrape down the side of the bowl. Reduce the speed to medium-low, add the flour and salt, and mix until everything is evenly combined. Mix in the milk, 1/3 cup at a time. Then, by hand, stir in the Key lime juice. The batter will be thin. Set aside while you whip the egg whites.
4. With a handheld or stand mixer, whisk the egg whites in a clean dry bowl on medium speed until frothy. Increase the speed to medium-high and whip until the whites hold a peak on the whisk or beaters (stop the mixer and lift to check).
5. Using the rubber spatula, gently fold the egg whites into the Key lime mixture. Using a measuring cup to scoop up the batter evenly, divide it among the ramekins so it comes to within 1/4 inch of the rims.
6. It's best to find a space near your oven to fill the baking pan with water so you don't have to walk too far. Place the ramekins in the baking pan and, using a container with a spout, slowly pour very hot tap water into the pan so that the water comes about half the way up the sides of the ramekins. Carefully transfer the baking pan to the oven. Bake the puddings until some begin to turn golden brown and have cracked slightly on the surface, about 40 minutes.
7. Remove the baking pan from the oven. Let cool until you can pick up the ramekins (15 minutes or so), then remove them from the water.
8. Spread the almonds in one layer in a small baking pan and put it in the still-warm oven. Set a timer for 10 minutes and check the nuts to see if they're a light golden brown. If not, toast 2 minutes longer. Set aside to cool.
9. Serve the cakes warm or at room temperature, the almonds scattered on top just before serving.

Whoopie Pies with Mint Filling and Chocolate Ganache 
2 cups all purpose flour
5 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/8 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup nonhydrogenated solid vegetable shortening or unsalted butter (1 stick), room temperature
1 cup sugar
2 large egg yolks
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 cup whole milk
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons nonhydrogenated solid vegetable shortening or unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 teaspoon peppermint extract
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups plus 3 tablespoons powdered sugar
1/4 cup egg whites (from about 2 large eggs)
3 to 4 drops green food coloring
3 tablespoons heavy whipping cream
1/2 cup bittersweet or semisweet chocolate chips
Pastry bag or resealable plastic bag
Medium-size star pastry tip

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Line 2 large rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Sift flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, and baking soda into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat shortening, sugar, egg yolks, and vanilla in large bowl until well blended, about 2 minutes. Add flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with milk in 2 additions, beating until blended after each addition.
Drop dough by very rounded tablespoonfuls onto prepared baking sheets, spacing 3 inches apart. Bake 1 sheet at a time until cookies are slightly puffed and spread but are still soft, 8 to 10 minutes. Cool on sheets 10 minutes. Carefully transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. Repeat with remaining cookie dough. DO AHEAD: Cookies can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight in single layer at room temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat shortening, peppermint extract, and vanilla in large metal bowl until blended. Add powdered sugar, egg whites, and pinch of salt; beat until light and fluffy. Add food coloring drop by drop for desired shade of green; beat until well blended. If mixture looks curdled, place bowl over low heat several seconds and beat until smooth. Repeat as necessary until smooth.
Line rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Bring cream to simmer in heavy small saucepan. Remove from heat. Add chocolate; whisk until smooth. Cool until lukewarm but spreadable, about 15 minutes.
Spoon 1 teaspoon ganache onto bottom (flat side) of half of cookies. Place cookies, ganache side up, on prepared baking sheet.
Spoon mint filling into pastry bag fitted with medium star tip (or spoon filling into resealable plastic bag, squeezing filling into 1 corner of bag, then cut off 1/4 inch of plastic bag corner to allow for piping). Starting at outer edge of bottom (flat side) of remaining cookies and working toward center, pipe mint filling in spiral. Place 1 mint-filled cookie, mint side down, atop each ganache-topped cookie, pressing slightly to adhere. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 hours ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Glittering Lemon Sandwich Cookies 
1 1/3 cups all-purpose flour
2/3 cup cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1/2 pound) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup confectioners' sugar
1 tablespoon grated lemon zest
1 teaspoon vanilla
White and colored sanding sugars
1 cup confectioners' sugar
1 tablespoon grated lemon zest
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
1/2 stick (4 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
a heavy-duty sealable bag

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Whisk together flour, cornstarch, and salt.
Beat together butter and confectioners' sugar with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy, then beat in zest and vanilla. At low speed, mix in flour mixture just until a soft dough forms.
Put sanding sugars in different bowls. Roll a scant teaspoon of dough into a ball and drop into sugar, turning to coat. Reshape if necessary and transfer to a baking sheet. Repeat, spacing balls 3/4 inch apart, until baking sheet is filled.
Bake until tops are slightly cracked but still pale (bottoms will be pale golden), 12 to 15 minutes. Transfer cookies on parchment to a rack to cool completely.
Form and bake more cookies on second baking sheet.
Beat together all filling ingredients in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until combined well. Transfer to sealable bag and snip off a corner.
Turn over half of cookies and pipe about 1/2 teaspoon filling on flat side of each. Sandwich with remaining cookies, pressing gently.

Ginger Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1/4 teaspoon coarse salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground cloves
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1 cup sugar, plus 3/4 cup for rolling
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 large egg, at room temperature
1/4 cup unsulfured molasses

In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, cloves, and ginger; set aside.
In the bowl of a standing mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat together the sugar and butter on medium speed until light and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes, scraping down the sides of the bowl halfway through. Beat in the egg and molasses until combined. Reduce the mixer speed to low and gradually add the flour mixture, beating until combined. Transfer the dough to a clean bowl, cover with plastic wrap, and refrigerate until well chilled, about 1 hour (and up to 24 hours).
Arrange the oven rack in the middle position. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line two baking sheets with parchment paper or nonstick silicone baking mats; set aside. Place the extra sugar for rolling on a plate; set aside.
Use a 1 1/2-inch ice cream scoop to scoop out the dough, and roll into balls between your hands. Roll the balls in the sugar to coat, and place about 2 inches apart on the prepared baking sheets.
Bake one sheet at a time, rotating the sheet two-thirds of the way through the baking time, until the cookies are deep golden brown and the centers are firm, 15 to 20 minutes.
Transfer the sheet to a wire rack to cool for 10 minutes. Use a spatula to transfer the cookies to the rack, and let cool completely. Continue to roll and bake the remaining cookies in the same way.

White Chocolate Espresso Torte with Hazelnut Praline 
2/3 cup sugar
1/4 cup water
1 1/2 teaspoons instant espresso powder
1 cup hazelnuts, toasted , husked
1 6- to 8-ounce block high-quality white chocolate (1 to 1 1/2 inches thick; for chocolate curls)
12 ounces high-quality white chocolate (such as lindt or perugina), finely chopped
5 tablespoons water
2 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
2 1/2 teaspoons instant espresso powder soaking syrup and ganache
2/3 cup kahlúa or other coffee-flavored liqueur
4 teaspoons instant espresso powder
7 ounces bittersweet chocolate (do not exceed 61% cacao), chopped
2 tablespoons dark corn syrup
3/4 cup heavy whipping cream
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
4 large eggs, room temperature
2/3 cup sugar
3 1/2 teaspoons instant espresso powder, divided
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 cup sifted cake flour (sifted, then measured)
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled
6 tablespoons powdered sugar, divided
Blocks of white chocolate are often available at Whole Foods markets and can be ordered online from beryls.Com

Place sheet of foil on work surface. Bring sugar and 1/4 cup water to boil in heavy medium saucepan over medium-high heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Boil without stirring until syrup is deep amber, brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush and swirling occasionally, 7 to 8 minutes. Mix in espresso powder, then nuts. Scrape mixture onto foil; quickly spread out. Cool completely. Chop praline into small pieces.
Microwave white chocolate block at 50 percent power in 10-second intervals until chocolate feels just slightly warm and is just beginning to soften (if too soft, let stand until firm enough to shave). Using vegetable peeler, shave 1- to 1 1/2-inch-wide ribbon, about 4 to 5 inches long, from block. Gently roll ribbon into loose curl (cylinder). Repeat, making 20 to 24 curls. DO AHEAD: Praline and chocolate curls can be made 2 days ahead. Chill separately in airtight containers.
Stir chocolate and 5 tablespoons water in metal bowl set over saucepan of barely simmering water until chocolate is smooth. Remove bowl from over water. Cool chocolate to lukewarm, stirring occasionally. Using electric mixer, beat cream in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually pour lukewarm chocolate over cream, folding to blend well. Transfer 2 1/2 cups mousse to another medium bowl; gently fold in espresso powder. Cover and chill both bowls of mousse until firm, at least 6 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled.
Stir liqueur and espresso powder in small bowl until espresso dissolves. Place chocolate and corn syrup in medium bowl. Bring cream to boil in small saucepan; pour over chocolate and corn syrup. Stir until melted and smooth. DO AHEAD: soaking syrup and ganache can be made 1 day ahead. Cover separately and store at room temperature.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat 15 x 10-inch sheet of parchment paper with nonstick spray. Line 15x10x1-inch baking sheet with prepared parchment (sides of baking sheet should not be coated).
Combine eggs, sugar, 2 teaspoons espresso powder, vanilla, and salt in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat until egg mixture is thick and fluffy and falls in ribbons when beater is lifted, 6 to 7 minutes. Sift flour over in 3 additions, folding gently just to incorporate after each addition. Transfer 1 cup batter to small bowl; fold in butter. Fold batter from small bowl back into batter in large bowl just until combined; spread evenly on baking sheet.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean and cake begins to pull away from pan, about 18 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 30 minutes.
Sift 2 tablespoons powdered sugar over cake. Cut around pan sides. Slide spatula under parchment to loosen from pan and invert cake onto work surface. Peel off parchment. Cut cake crosswise into 4 rectangles, each about 10 x 3 1/2 inches.
Place 1 cake rectangle on platter. Brush 2 tablespoons soaking syrup over. Spread 3 tablespoons ganache over, then 1/3 of espresso mousse (about 3/4 cup). Repeat 2 more times with cake, syrup, ganache, and mousse. Top with fourth cake layer; press lightly to adhere. Spread 2/3 cup plain mousse thinly over top and sides of torte to seal, then spread remaining mousse over top and sides. DO AHEAD: can be made 1 day ahead. Tent loosely with foil and chill.
Before serving, press praline pieces into mousse on all sides of torte. Mound white chocolate curls on top. Mix 4 tablespoons powdered sugar and 1 1/2 teaspoons espresso powder in small bowl. Sift over top of torte.

Crisp Cocoa-Pecan Cookies 
1 1/3 cups all purpose flour
3 tablespoons natural unsweetened cocoa powder (scooped into measuring spoon, then leveled)
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, melted, cooled
1/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons plus 2 teaspoons light corn syrup
2 tablespoons whole milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup chopped pecans or walnuts
1/2 cup bittersweet chocolate chips

Whisk flour, cocoa, baking soda, and 1/2 teaspoon (generous) salt in medium bowl. Stir butter and next 5 ingredients in another medium bowl until smooth. Stir in flour mixture, then nuts. Cover and chill until firm enough to scoop, at least 4 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled.
Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. Line 3 large baking sheets with parchment. Measure 2 level tablespoonfuls dough; roll between palms into ball. Place on prepared sheet. Using fingers, spread out dough to 3-inch-diameter disk. Repeat with remaining dough, spacing 5 inches apart.
Bake cookies 8 minutes; reverse sheets. Bake cookies until flat and beginning to darken around edges, about 10 minutes. Transfer cookies on parchment to rack (cookies will crisp as they cool). DO AHEAD: Can be made 4 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
Place rack inside rimmed baking sheet. Place chocolate chips in small microwave- safe bowl. Heat chips in microwave in 15-second intervals until smooth, stirring occasionally. Place cookies on rack. Drizzle melted chocolate over cookies. Let stand until chocolate sets, about 30 minutes.

Hills Family Sugar Cookie Cutouts 
3 1/2 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
2 large eggs, at room temperature
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
1 egg white
Pinch of salt
A few drops of vegetable oil
Up to 1 pound of confectioners' sugar
1 to 3 tablespoons of cream
If using egg whites: 3 large egg whites at room temperature and 1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
If using meringue powder: 3 tablespoons meringue powder and 6 tablespoons warm water
3 3/4 cups confectioners' sugar
Optional: 1 to 2 drops of glycerin
Food coloring

Sift the flour with baking powder and salt in a medium-sized bowl. Using an electric mixer, cream the butter for a full minute, then add the sugar and beat at medium speed until light, about 5 minutes. Beat in eggs and vanilla until fluffy and very light, another 2 to 4 minutes. With a wooden spoon gradually work the flour into the creamed mixture. Divide the dough into two portions and wrap in waxed paper or plastic wrap. Refrigerate until firm, at least several hours or overnight.
Heat the oven to 400 degrees . On a floured surface, roll out the dough to 1/4 inch thick, using more flour for the rolling pin, sprinkled on the dough, and additionally on the floured surface as needed to prevent sticking. Cut into desired shapes with cookie cutters and place on cookie sheets.
This dough works beautifully if gathered and rerolled; if it gets too soft, chill for about 15 minutes.
Refrigerate or freeze the cut-out cookies on their baking sheets for 10 to 15 minutes so they will retain their firm edges as they bake; if you're in a hurry, go ahead and bake the cookies immediately. Bake for 5 to 8 minutes or until cookies are puffed and only just barely starting to brown at the edges: Start with the shortest amount of time and watch carefully, especially with very small cookies. As the cookies are fragile right out of the oven, let cool slightly before moving to a wire rack to cool completely.
When cool, glaze and decorate as desired.
Makes up to 6 dozen cookies, depending on the size. This recipe can be easily doubled or tripled.
Whisk the egg white and salt until loosened and beginning to foam. Add oil, confectioners' sugar, and cream gradually and whisk, adding more sugar and cream until the glaze is of spreading consistency: You want it to be thin enough to spread easily over the cookies to their edges, but not so thin it runs off the sides.
Using an offset spatula or a smooth table knife, spread the glaze over each cookie, filling in the shape to its edges. While the glaze is wet, you can decorate the cookies with colored sprinkles, or leave the glaze plain, let dry, and add more decoration with Royal Icing.
Before you start, make sure that all utensils and containers are clean and grease-free. Have ready several small containers for dividing the icing and tinting it with different colors, if desired. You will need to keep the royal icing covered with a damp cloth, plastic wrap, or tight fitting lid or it will dry out. Royal icing will keep, tightly covered, in the refrigerator for about one week. This recipe is proportioned for the firmest-textured icing; adjust the texture with the addition of water or sugar as explained below.
If using egg whites, combine the egg whites, cream of tartar, and sugar and beat until the icing is thick and holds billowy peaks, about 6 to 8 minutes. Add glycerin for extra shine, if desired.
If using meringue powder, whisk the meringue powder and sugar together in the bowl of an electric mixer. Add the water and beat on low speed for about 5 minutes, until icing is thick and holds billowy peaks. Don't overbeat or the icing texture will become hard to work with. Add glycerin for extra shine, if desired. To adjust the consistency of icing: To thicken, add sifted confectioners' sugar a spoonful at a time, whisking thoroughly until you reach the desired consistency. To thin, add warm water a few drops at a time, mixing with a spoon. Piped outlines and details require the thickest icing; flows of color over a whole cookie or in sections can be somewhat thinner.
Royal icing hardens very quickly when exposed to air, so cover with a damp cloth, plastic wrap, or container lids when not in immediate use.
Divide the icing into separate containers for each color to be used. Tint the icing with small amounts of food coloring until it reaches the color desired.
To use, icing can be spread onto cookies with an offset spatula or table knife—even painted on with small, previously unused paintbrushes, such as the ones that come in a child's paint box—or it can be piped through a pastry bag and tips. For simple, plain outlines, use a zipper plastic bag with a tiny hole cut from one corner.
Makes about 3 cups of icing.

Brown Sugar–Ginger Cream Cake 
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 cup cake flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 eggs, at room temperature
1 cup heavy cream
1 cup maple sugar, dark muscovado, or organic dark brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1/8 teaspoon freshly ground pepper
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Butter and flour a loaf pan or an 8-inch springform pan. If using a loaf pan, line the bottom and ends with parchment paper. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Combine the flours, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl and whisk them together. Make a well in the middle.
Using the whisk attachment of an electric mixer, beat the eggs until foamy, then add the cream, sugar, and flavorings. Beat until you have what looks like soft whipped cream. (If using maple sugar, the cream may not thicken, but the cake will still work.) Pour the mixture into the center of the flour mixture and whisk together just until well combined and free of lumps. Scrape the batter into the pan and even it out.
Bake until a cake tester comes out clean, 50 to 60 minutes. Let cool for 15 minutes, then remove the rim or turn the cake out of the pan and remove the paper. Cool before slicing.

Cocoa Layer Cake 
1/2 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder (spooned into cup to measure, then leveled)
1 cup luke warm water, divided
1/2 cup buttermilk
1 1/2 cups cake flour (spooned into cups to measure, then leveled)
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs, room temperature, beaten to blend
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter
1 1/3 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
1 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons instant espresso powder
1 cup heavy whipping cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides

Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line with parchment paper rounds; butter parchment. Whisk cocoa and 1/2 cup warm water in small bowl. Whisk buttermilk and 1/2 cup water in another small bowl. Sift flour, baking soda, and 1/4 teaspoon salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat both sugars and butter in large bowl until pale yellow and fluffy (mixture will appear granular), about 5 minutes. With mixer running, gradually add beaten eggs, then beat until smooth and fluffy, about 15 seconds. Add cocoa mixture; beat to blend. Add flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with buttermilk mixture in 2 additions, beating to blend after each addition. Divide batter among pans (about 1 3/4 cups each).
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, reversing pans halfway through baking, about 18 minutes. Cool completely in pans on racks.
Melt butter in medium saucepan over medium heat. Stir in sugar, cocoa, espresso powder, and 1/2 teaspoon (scant) salt. Gradually stir in cream. Stir until mixture is very hot and just begins to simmer at edges. Reduce heat to low; stir 1 minute to let flavors blend. Transfer to medium bowl; stir in vanilla (frosting will resemble chocolate sauce). Chill until just thickened, stirring occasionally, about 1 1/2 hours. Let stand at room temperature.
Run knife around cake sides. Carefully invert 1 cake onto plate (cake is very tender); peel off parchment. Spread with 1/2 cup frosting. Invert second cake onto palm of hand. Position cake 2 inches above frosted cake layer. Carefully slide cake onto first cake layer. Peel off parchment. Spread cake with 1⁄2 cup frosting. Repeat with third cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; let stand at room temperature.
Cut into wedges and serve.

Orange Coconut Stars 
Sugar Cookie Dough
Vegetable oil cooking spray
1/2 cup shredded sweetened coconut
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
Zest of 1 orange
2 tablespoons orange juice

Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Cut dough in half; roll out both halves to an even 1/4-inch thickness. Cut out cookies with a 2-inch star cookie cutter; reroll scraps to get 40 cookies. Coat 2 cookie sheets with cooking spray; place cookies on sheets 1 inch apart and bake 1 batch at a time until firm and slightly golden at edges, 4 to 5 minutes. Cool on wire racks. Line baking sheet with foil; spread coconut on foil. Bake, stirring once or twice, until golden, 3 to 4 minutes. Spread coconut on sheet of wax paper; crush with fingers. Whisk sugar, zest and juice in a bowl until combined. Dip 1 side of cookie into orange glaze, then press into coconut; let set on wire racks.

Sugar Cookie 
3/4 cup cake flour
3/4 cup white whole-wheat flour or whole-wheat pastry flour
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 teaspoon salt
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup granulated sugar
2 egg whites
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Whisk flours, baking powder, and salt in a bowl. In another bowl, beat butter and sugar with a hand mixer until light and fluffy; add egg whites and vanilla, and beat until just combined. Gradually stir flour mixture into butter mixture until combined. Form dough into a log, wrap tightly in waxed paper and refrigerate at least 3 hours. For plain sugar cookies, heat oven to 350 degrees F. Cut dough in half; roll out both halves to an even 1/4-inch thickness. Cut out 40 cookies using a 2-inch cutter. Coat 2 cookie sheets with cooking spray; place cookies on sheets 1 inch apart and bake until firm, 6 to 8 minutes.

Triple Chocolate Chocolate Chip Cookies 
Nonstick cooking spray
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder, sifted
1 cup canned white cannellini beans, rinsed and drained
2 tablespoons light agave syrup
3 large egg whites
1 1/2 cups granulated Splenda
1/4 cup dark chocolate covered cacao nibs
1/4 cup mini chocolate chips

Preheat the oven to 375˚F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper and spray lightly with cooking spray. Set aside.
In the bowl of a food processor, combine vanilla, cocoa, cannellini beans, and the agave syrup, and blend the mixture until smooth, about 3 minutes, scraping down the side of the bowl halfway through blending.
In the bowl of a mixer fitted with a whip attachment, beat the egg whites until they form soft peaks. Gradually beat in the Splenda. Continue to beat the whites until they are creamy and nearly stiff. Add one-third of the egg-white mixture to the cocoa-bean mixture in the food processor. Blend to combine, about 30 seconds. In 2 batches, fold the lightened cocoa mixture into the egg whites until they are almost fully combined. Add cacao nibs to the batter. Fold batter until cacao nibs are evenly dispersed and cocoa mixture is completely incorporated.
Drop mounded spoonfuls of batter onto the prepared sheets. Spread batter out to form cookies about 2 1/2 inches in diameter. Sprinkle the chocolate chips on top of the cookies.
Bake for 20 minutes, rotating the pans one turn halfway through baking. Using a metal spatula, transfer cookies to wire racks to cool.

French Macaroons with Raspberry-Rose Buttercream 
2 cups powdered sugar
1 cup (lightly packed) sifted almond flour, or 3/4 cup sifted almond flour and 1/4 cup sifted hazelnut flour (sifted, then measured; any coarse particles reserved for another use)
1/2 cup (scant) egg whites (from about 3 large eggs)
2 tablespoons plus 1/2 teaspoon sugar
4 cups frozen raspberries (about 15 ounces; do not thaw)
1 cup plus 6 tablespoons sugar, divided
1/4 cup egg whites (from about 2 large eggs), room temperature
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into 1-inch pieces, room temperature
1/4 teaspoon (generous) rose water
Pastry bag
1/4-inch-diameter plain pastry tip
Heavy-duty stand mixer
Candy thermometer

Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment. Sift powdered sugar, almond flour, and hazelnut flour (if using) into large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites, sugar, and pinch of salt in medium bowl until medium peaks form. Add egg white mixture to almond mixture; fold to incorporate. Working in 2 batches, fill pastry bag fitted with 1/4-inch-diameter plain pastry tip with batter (batter will be thin and will drip from bag). Pipe batter in 11/4-inch rounds on baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart (cookies will spread slightly). Let rest on sheets at room temperature 20 minutes. Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven; preheat to 375 degrees F. Bake cookies 5 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F. Continue to bake cookies until puffed and golden on top, about 10 minutes, reversing sheets after 5 minutes. Cool cookies on sheets on rack. Carefully peel cookies from parchment. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.
Bring raspberries and 1 cup sugar to boil in large saucepan over high heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Cook until berries are soft, juices thicken, and mixture measures about 1 1/2 cups, stirring frequently, 7 to 9 minutes. Measure 1/2 cup mixture; strain into small bowl. Cool strained jam and jam with seeds separately. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 week ahead. Cover jams separately and chill.
Combine egg whites, 6 tablespoons sugar, and 1/4 teaspoon salt in bowl of heavy- duty stand mixer. Set bowl over large saucepan of simmering water. Heat until candy thermometer inserted into mixture registers 140 degrees F, stirring often, 3 to 4 minutes. Using whisk attachment, beat egg white mixture at high speed until stiff meringue forms and mixture is at room temperature, 5 to 6 minutes. With mixer running, add butter, 1 piece at a time, beating until each piece is incorporated before adding next. Beat in rose water. Add 3 tablespoons seedless jam, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating to blend well after each addition. (If buttercream looks broken or curdled, place bowl over medium heat and whisk 5 to 10 seconds to warm slightly, then remove from heat and beat again on medium speed. Repeat warming and beating as many times as needed until buttercream is smooth.)
Line rimmed baking sheet with parchment. Using 1/2 teaspoon jam with seeds for each, spread jam over flat side of half of macaroons. Spoon buttercream into pastry bag fitted with 1/4-inch plain tip. Starting at outer edge of flat sides of remaining macaroons, pipe buttercream over in spiral. Gently press macaroons, jam- filled side down, onto buttercream-coated macaroons. Place on sheet. Cover; chill overnight. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 to 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container in refrigerator. Let stand at room temperature 30 minutes before serving.

Sandwich Cookies with Chocolate Ganache Filling 
Sugar Cookie Dough
6 tablespoons bittersweet chocolate chips
1/4 cup half-and-half

Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Cut dough in half; roll out both halves to an even 1/4-inch thickness. Cut out cookies with a round 1-inch cookie cutter, rerolling scraps to get 72 cookies. Coat 2 cookie sheets with cooking spray; place cookies on sheets 1 inch apart and bake 1 batch at a time until firm, 3 to 5 minutes. Cool on wire racks. Simmer chocolate chips and half-and-half in a small saucepan over low heat, stirring once or twice, until chocolate melts and is smooth, 1 to 2 minutes; remove from heat. Let cool 1 minute. Spread 1/2 teaspoon chocolate ganache on a cookie; press a second cookie on top to form a sandwich. Repeat with remaining cookies and ganache.

Fudgy Meringue Cookies 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 cup bittersweet chocolate chips (do not exceed 61% cacao; about 6 ounces), divided
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar, divided
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons cornstarch
2 large egg whites, room temperature
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar

Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Coat 2 large rimmed baking sheets with nonstick spray. Place 1/2 cup chocolate chips in small microwave-safe bowl. Cook in 15-second intervals until chocolate softens; stir until melted and smooth. Cool chocolate to lukewarm, about 10 minutes. Whisk 1/2 cup sugar, cocoa, and cornstarch in small bowl to blend.
Using electric mixer, beat room-temperature egg whites, vanilla, 1/8 teaspoon salt, and cream of tartar in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Add remaining 1 cup sugar in 4 additions, beating just to blend after each addition. Continue to beat until meringue is thick and glossy like marshmallow creme, about 2 minutes longer. Beat in cocoa mixture. Fold in melted chocolate, then 1/2 cup chips.
Drop batter by rounded tablespoonfuls onto prepared sheets, spacing 3 inches apart. Bake cookies 7 minutes. Reverse sheets and bake until dry-looking and cracked, about 6 minutes. Cool cookies on sheets 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool completely.

Sticky Toffee Banana Pudding 
1 1/4 cups plus 3 tablespoons (or more) heavy whipping cream
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup dark corn syrup
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
2 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup mashed very ripe bananas (2 to 3)
1 tablespoon dark rum
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Sliced bananas (optional)
8 x 8 x 2-inch nonstick metal baking pan

Bring 1 1/4 cups cream, brown sugar, corn syrup, butter, and 1/8 teaspoon salt to boil in heavy small saucepan over medium heat, whisking until sugar dissolves. Reduce heat to medium-low and cook at gentle boil until sauce coats spoon thickly and is reduced to 11/2 cups, whisking occasionally, about 15 minutes. Remove from heat and cool. Whisk in 3 tablespoons or more cream to thin sauce to desired consistency. DO AHEAD: can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and chill. Rewarm slightly before using.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 8 x 8 x 2-inch nonstick metal baking pan. Dust baking pan with flour, tapping out excess.
Whisk flour, baking powder, and 1/2 teaspoon salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in mashed bananas, rum, and vanilla (batter may look curdled). Add dry ingredients in 4 additions, beating just to blend after each addition. Spread batter evenly in prepared baking pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, 35 to 38 minutes. Spread 1/2 cup toffee sauce evenly over cake. Return cake to oven and bake until sauce is bubbling thickly, about 6 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 30 minutes. Cut around cake in pan. Cut cake into 9 squares or 12 rectangles. Serve cake slightly warm or at room temperature with toffee sauce and top with sliced bananas, if desired.

Minty Mini-Doughnuts 
Sugar Cookie Dough
Vegetable oil cooking spray
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
1 tablespoon skim milk
2 Medium candy canes, crushed

Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat 2 cookie sheets with cooking spray. Cut dough into 4 equal pieces; cut each into 16 equal pieces. Roll each piece between fingers to form a 1 1/2-to 2-inch-long log. Pinch together ends of each log to form rings and place doughnuts 1 inch apart on cookie sheets; bake 1 batch at a time until dough puffs, 5 to 6 minutes. Whisk sugar and milk in a bowl until smooth. Dip top of each warm cookie into sugar-milk glaze; press into crushed candy. Let set on wire racks.

Florentines 
1/2 cup heavy cream
1/2 cup sugar
3 tablespoons butter
1 1/4 cups finely chopped almonds
3/4 cup finely chopped candied orange peel
1/3 cup flour

In a saucepan, mix together 1/2 cup each of heavy cream and sugar and 3 tablespoons butter and bring the mixture to a boil. Remove it from the heat and stir in 1 1/4 cups finely chopped almonds, 3/4 cup finely chopped candied orange peel, and 1/3 cup flour. Drop the batter from a tablespoon into mounds about 3 inches apart on oiled and lightly floured cookie sheets and flatten each cookie with a wet spatula. Bake the cookies in a moderate oven (350 degrees F) for about 10 minutes. Remove them from the oven and let them stand for about 5 minutes. Remove the cookies to a wire rack, let them cool completely, and spread them with chocolate glaze. Chill them.
Melt 1 ounce each of unsweetened chocolate and sweet cooking chocolate over simmering water. Add 2 tablespoons butter and 1 teaspoon honey and stir the glaze until the butter is melted. For an easier glaze, use melted bittersweet chocolate.

Triple-Ginger Cookies 
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup solid vegetable shortening (preferably non-hydrogenated)
1/4 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
1 large egg
2 teaspoons minced peeled fresh ginger
1/4 cup chopped crystallized ginger
Raw sugar (for rolling)
Ingredient info: Look for raw sugar (also called turbinado or demerara sugar) at most supermarkets and at natural foods stores.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment. Whisk first 5 ingredients and 1/2 teaspoon salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and shortening in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in molasses, egg, and fresh ginger. Stir in crystallized ginger, then dry ingredients.
Fill small shallow bowl with raw sugar. Using moist hands, shape 1 teaspoonful dough into ball; roll in raw sugar. Place on prepared sheet. Repeat with remaining dough, spacing cookies 2 inches apart.
Bake cookies until golden and dry-looking, about 15 minutes. Cool on sheets.

Monster Pops 
48 uncoated Basic Cake Balls , chilled
64 ounces (4 pounds) purple candy coating
Deep, microwave-safe plastic bowl
48 paper lollipop sticks
Styrofoam block
Large squeeze bottle
White candy writer
Chocolate jimmies
Blue edible-ink pen
Black edible-ink pen

Have the cake balls chilled and in the refrigerator.
Melt the purple candy coating in a microwave-safe plastic bowl, following the instructions on the package. The coating should be about 3 inches deep for easier dipping. (I usually work with about 16 ounces of coating at a time.)
When you are ready to dip, remove a few cake balls at a time from the refrigerator, keeping the rest chilled.
One at a time, dip about 1/2 inch of the tip of a lollipop stick in the melted candy coating, and insert the stick straight into a cake ball, pushing it no more than halfway through. Dip the cake pop into the melted coating, and tap off any excess coating. Hold the pop over the bowl in one hand, and tap your wrist gently with your other hand. If you use the hand holding the cake pop to shake off excess coating, the force of the movement will be too strong and could cause the cake ball to loosen or fly off the lollipop stick. Tapping the wrist holding the cake pop absorbs some of the impact. The excess coating will fall off, but you will need to rotate the lollipop stick so the coating doesn't build up on one side, making it too heavy on that side. If too much coating starts to build up at the base of the stick, simply use your finger to wipe it off, spinning the lollipop stick at the same time. This can happen if the coating is too thin or too hot. It's not as hard as it sounds; it just takes a little practice.
Let dry in a Styrofoam block.
Pour the remaining purple coating into a large squeeze bottle, and pipe random, drizzled lines all around the monster head. Let dry completely in the Styrofoam block.
On some of the pops, pipe two small white circles with a candy writer for the eyes, and insert 2 chocolate jimmies before the coating sets.
On the remaining pops, pipe a single large, white circle. Let dry completely and draw a large blue circle inside the white circle, using a blue edible-ink pen. With a black edible-ink pen, outline the circle and draw a pupil to finish the eye.
Let dry completely.
You can also use melted white candy coating for the eyes.

Double Chocolate-Peppermint Crunch Cookies 
2 1/2 cups bittersweet chocolate chips (do not exceed 61% cacao; 15 to 16 ounces), divided
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/4 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon instant espresso powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon peppermint extract
2 large eggs
4 candy canes or 16 red-and-white- striped hard peppermint candies, coarsely crushed

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line 2 large rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Stir 2 cups chocolate chips in medium metal bowl set over saucepan of simmering water until melted and smooth. Measure 2/3 cup melted chocolate; transfer to small metal bowl and reserve for drizzling.
Whisk flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, espresso powder, and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until creamy. Add sugar and both extracts; beat until smooth. Add eggs; beat to blend. Beat in melted chocolate from medium bowl. Add dry ingredients; beat just to blend. Stir in remaining 1/2 cup chocolate chips. Measure 1 level tablespoonful dough; roll dough between palms to form ball. Place on prepared baking sheet. Repeat with remaining dough, spacing cookies 1 1/2 inches apart.
Bake cookies until cracked all over and tester inserted into center comes out with large moist crumbs attached, 8 to 9 minutes. Cool cookies on baking sheet 5 minutes. Transfer cookies on parchment paper to racks to cool completely.
Rewarm reserved 2/3 cup chocolate over small saucepan of simmering water. Using fork, drizzle chocolate over cookies. Sprinkle crushed candy canes over, arranging some pieces with red parts showing. Chill just until chocolate sets, about 20 minutes. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 weeks ahead. Store airtight in freezer. Bring to room temperature before serving.

Chocolate-Toffee Shortbread Fingers 
1/2 cup toasted and cooled pecans, coarsely chopped
3/4 cup Heath Bits 'O Brickle Toffee bits or Skor or Heath bars, coarsely chopped
1 bag (12 ounces) bittersweet or semisweet chocolate chips
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
4 packages (8.8-ounces each) Walkers Pure Butter Shortbread Fingers

1. Line a few baking sheets with parchment paper. Combine the nuts and toffee bits in a shallow bowl.
2. Combine the chocolate and oil in a small microwave-safe bowl. Heat the chocolate in the microwave on high until melted, 30 seconds to 1 minute depending on the strength of your microwave. Stir until smooth. (Alternatively, place water to a depth of 1 inch in the bottom of a double boiler or a large saucepan and bring to a bare simmer. Place the chocolate chips and oil in the top of the double boiler or in a stainless steel bowl big enough to rest on top of the saucepan without touching the water. Heat, whisking occasionally, until the chocolate is melted.)
3. Hold a cookie by one end and dip it into the chocolate, turning, to coat three quarters of the cookie; let the excess drip back into the bowl. Hold the cookie over the bowl of nuts and toffee bits and sprinkle some of the mixture onto the chocolate-coated top and sides of the cookie. Place the cookie on a prepared baking sheet. Repeat with the remaining cookies. Let the cookies rest until the chocolate is set, about 30 minutes.
Chocolate-Toffee Shortbread Fingers will keep, between layers of parchment paper, in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 1 week
To toast the pecans, place them in a single layer on an ungreased baking sheet and bake in a 350 degrees F oven, shaking the pan occasionally, until fragrant, 5 to 10 minutes. Watch them closely to make sure they don't burn, and transfer the toasted nuts to a plate to let them cool.

World Peace Cookies 
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/3 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
11 tablespoons (1 stick plus 3 tablespoons) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
5 ounces extra-bittersweet chocolate (do not exceed 85% cacao), chopped (no pieces bigger than 1/3 inch)

Sift flour, cocoa, and baking soda into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth but not fluffy. Add both sugars, vanilla, and sea salt; beat until fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add flour mixture; beat just until blended (mixture may be crumbly). Add chopped chocolate; mix just to distribute (if dough doesn't come together, knead lightly in bowl to form ball). Divide dough in half. Place each half on sheet of plastic wrap. Form each into 1 1/2-inch-diameter log. Wrap each in plastic; chill until firm, about 3 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Keep chilled.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Using thin sharp knife, cut logs crosswise into 1/2-inch-thick rounds. Space 1 inch apart on prepared sheets. Bake 1 sheet at a time until cookies appear dry (cookies will not be firm or golden at edges), 11 to 12 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Teddie's Apple Cake 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 1/2 cups peanut, vegetable, or corn oil
2 cups sugar
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 cups peeled, cored, and thickly sliced apples
1 cup chopped walnuts
1 cup raisins
Vanilla ice cream for serving (optional)

1. Heat the oven to 350 degrees. Butter and flour a 9-inch tube pan. Sift together the flour, salt, cinnamon, and baking soda.
2. Beat the oil and sugar together in a mixer with a paddle (or in a bowl with a hand mixer) for 5 minutes. Add the eggs and beat until the mixture is creamy. Stir in the dry ingredients. Add the vanilla, apples, walnuts, and raisins and stir until combined.
3. Turn the batter into the prepared pan. Bake for 1 hour and 15 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Cool in the pan before turning out.
4. Serve with vanilla ice cream, if desired.
If mixing the batter in a mixer, use a paddle attachment and turn the speed to low once you add the flour mixture, or the texture of the cake will be tough. Even better, mix the rest by hand.
The recipe called for Red Delicious or McIntosh apples, but I'd recommend a variety that's brighter in flavor and firmer in texture, such as a Honeycrisp, Macoun, or Granny Smith.
The apple slices can be halved if you want a more uniform texture.
This cake can be eaten at any time of day, including breakfast. If you serve it for dessert, the recipe suggested a scoop of vanilla ice cream on the side. I prefer to whip 1/2 cup of heavy cream to soft peaks, then fold in crème fraîche to taste.
 inchI most recently baked this cake for Thanksgiving 2004. There was a small piece left over and several days later (it keeps beautifully), I wrapped it in aluminum foil and took it to NYC for my son and daughter-in-law. He took it from me and started looking around his kitchen. When I questioned him, he said he had to hide it from his wife. inch
Rochelle Rogers-Lippin, Huntington, NY, letter
SEPTEMBER 30, 1973:  inchJUST DESSERTS, inch BY JEAN HEWITT. RECIPE BY TEDDIE. —1973

Easy Cranberry & Apple Cake 
12 ounces fresh cranberries, rinsed and picked over for stems
1 Granny Smith apple, peeled, cored, and medium-diced
1/2 cup light brown sugar, packed
1 tablespoon grated orange zest (2 oranges)
1/4 cup freshly squeezed orange juice
1 1/8 teaspoons ground cinnamon, divided
2 extra-large eggs, at room temperature
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon granulated sugar
1/4 pound (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted and slightly cooled
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/4 cup sour cream
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees.
Combine the cranberries, apple, brown sugar, orange zest, orange juice, and 1 teaspoon of the cinnamon in a medium bowl. Set aside.
In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the eggs on medium-high speed for 2 minutes. With the mixer on medium, add 1 cup of the granulated sugar, the butter, vanilla, and sour cream and beat just until combined. On low speed, slowly add the flour and salt.
Pour the fruit mixture evenly into a 10-inch glass pie plate. Pour the batter over the fruit, covering it completely. Combine the remaining 1 tablespoon of granulated sugar and 1/8 teaspoon of cinnamon and sprinkle it over the batter. Bake for 55 to 60 minutes, until a tooth-pick inserted in the middle of the cake comes out clean and the fruit is bubbling around the edges. Serve warm or at room temperature.

M'hanncha (Snake Cake) 
3 cups almonds
3/4 cup confectioners' sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, melted
2 egg yolks, beaten
1 tablespoon orange-flower water
1 tablespoon orange juice
1 tablespoon grated orange zest
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
12 (12- by 17-inch) sheets phyllo dough
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, melted
2 egg yolks, beaten
1 tablespoon water
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 cup confectioners' sugar
4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/4 cup sliced almonds

Combine the almonds, confectioners' sugar, cinnamon, and cardamom in a food processor or blender and pulse to grind into a coarse meal. Add the butter and egg yolks and pulse until blended. Scrape the paste into a bowl, and stir in the orange-flower water, orange juice, orange zest, and vanilla. Divide the paste into 12 balls, and refrigerate for 30 minutes.
Set the balls on a work surface dusted with confectioners' sugar. Roll each one into a 3 1/2-inch-long log. Refrigerate for 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a large baking sheet. Dust a work surface with confectioners' sugar. Place a sheet of phyllo pastry on the sugared work surface, and fold it in thirds to form a 4- by 17-inch rectangle. Brush the sheet with melted butter. Add another folded phyllo sheet, brush with butter, and repeat, until you have four buttered sheets.
Set four orange-almond paste logs in a row down one long end of the phyllo, and roll the pastry up over them into a cylinder. Fold over the ends and brush on some melted butter to seal the seams. Shape the cylinder into a small, tight coil and place on the baking sheet, seam side down.
Repeat to prepare two more phyllo rolls. Add each to the end of the coil on the baking sheet, forming a large coil.
Combine the egg yolks, water, and cinnamon. Brush the mixture over the top of the cake.
Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, or until golden. Remove the cake from the oven, and let cool on the baking sheet.
Stir together the confectioners' sugar and cinnamon. Sprinkle on the cake, and top with sliced almonds.

Stained-Glass Ornaments 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/2 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
3/4 cup unsulfured molasses
1/3 cup water
6 ounces translucent hard candies in colors of choice, crushed

1. In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg. Set aside.
2. In a large bowl, with an electric mixer, beat the butter on medium speed until creamy. Add the sugar and molasses and beat for 2 minutes. Beat in the water. On low speed, beat in the flour mixture until a soft dough forms.
3. Gather the dough into a ball and wrap in plastic wrap. Refrigerate until firm, at least 1 hour or up to overnight.
4. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line cookie sheets with aluminum foil.
5. Divide the dough into thirds. Divide each third into 10 equal pieces. Using your palms, roll each piece on a lightly floured work surface into a rope 1/4 to 1/2 inch in diameter. Gently trace the design of your choice onto the prepared cookie sheets (a wooden spoon handle or chopstick works well for tracing on foil). Outline each design with a rope of dough, pressing the ends together to seal securely.
6. Sprinkle the inside of each design with the crushed candies, dividing the candies evenly among the outlined designs and creating an even layer.
7. Bake in the center of the oven or until the edges of the cookies are golden and the candy has melted, 6 to 9 minutes. Let the cookies cool on the cookie sheets on wire racks until the candy hardens, about 5 minutes. Gently peel the foil away from the cookies and transfer to the racks to cool completely.

Mrs. Stein's Chocolate Cake 
Softened unsalted butter and flour, for the pan
1 1/2 cups whole milk
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
2 1/3 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
1 cup Dutch-processed cocoa powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
1/2 ounce (1/2 square) unsweetened chocolate, finely chopped
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, chilled and cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 3/4 cups superfine sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
3 large eggs, at room temperature, beaten
Confectioners' sugar, for garnish, optional

1. Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour the inside of a 8 to 10-cup fluted tube pan and tap out the excess flour.
2. Combine the milk and lemon juice in a glass measuring cup. Let stand in a warm place (near the preheating oven) while preparing the rest of the batter; the milk will curdle. Sift the flour, cocoa, baking soda, and salt together into a medium bowl.
3. Bring 1/2 inch of water to a simmer in a small saucepan, and turn off the heat. Place the chocolate in a custard cup or ramekin and set in the hot water. Let stand until the chocolate is melted, then remove from the water, being careful not to splash any water into the chocolate, and stir until smooth. Let stand until tepid.
4. Beat the butter in the bowl of a heavy-duty stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment on medium-high speed until smooth, about 1 minute. Gradually beat in the sugar, then add the vanilla. Beat until the mixture is very light in color and texture, scraping occasionally, about 4 minutes. Gradually beat in the eggs. Reduce the mixer speed to low. Beat in the cooled chocolate. In thirds, alternating with two equal additions of the milk mixture, add the flour mixture, scraping down the bowl and beating until smooth after each addition. Spoon the batter into the pan and smooth the top with a spatula.
5. Bake until the top of the cake springs back when gently pressed with your finger, and a cake tester inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool on a wire rack for 10 minutes. Invert and unmold the cake onto the rack and cool completely. Sift a light coating of confectioners' sugar on top, if using. (The cake can be stored at room temperature, wrapped in plastic wrap, for up to 2 days.)

Coconut Cheesecake with Passion Fruit Glaze 
2 cups sweetened flaked coconut
8 whole graham crackers, broken
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, diced
4 8-ounce packages Philadelphia-brand cream cheese (do not use reduced-fat or fat-free)
2/3 cup sugar
1 15-ounce can cream of coconut (such as Coco López)
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon salt
5 large eggs
2 teaspoons water
1/4 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
10 passion fruits (about), divided
3 tablespoons plus 2 teaspoons sugar, divided
1 cup diced peeled pitted mango
1 cup diced peeled cored pineapple
8 1/3-inch-thick slices star fruit, diced
Ingredient info: Look for cream of coconut in the super market's liquor section.
1 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4- to 3-inch-high sides

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Blend all ingredients in processor until finely ground and sticking together, 1 to 2 minutes. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and 2 1/2 inches up sides of 9-inch-diameter spring form pan with 2 3/4- to 3-inch-high sides. Bake crust until golden, 14 to 15 minutes. Cool crust on rack. Increase oven temperature to 425 degrees F.
Blend cream cheese in processor until smooth, scraping sides and bottom of bowl. Add sugar. Using on/off turns, process to blend, scraping sides and bottom. Add cream of coconut, vanilla, and salt; blend 20 seconds, stopping to scrape sides. Add eggs 1 at a time; process to blend after each addition. Pour filling into crust.
Bake cheesecake 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 250 degrees F. Bake until center is softly set, about 1 hour 35 minutes longer. Turn off oven. Keeping door closed, cool cake in oven 1 hour. Refrigerate cake, uncovered, at least 12 hours or overnight.
Place 2 teaspoons water in small cup; sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand until gelatin softens, about 10 minutes. Place small strainer over 2-cup measuring cup. Reserve 1 passion fruit for compote. Cut remaining passion fruits in half, 1 at a time, and spoon fruit (including seeds) into strainer. Using flexible rubber spatula, press until 1/2 cup pulp (fruit and juices) is released into cup. Reserve a few seeds from strainer for garnish. Pour 1/2 cup passion fruit pulp into small saucepan. Mix in 2 tablespoons plus 2 teaspoons sugar. Stir over low heat until sugar dissolves and bubbles form at edge of pan. Add gelatin mixture and stir 1 minute to dissolve. Cool 10 minutes; pour into center of cheesecake. Rotate and tilt cake until glaze is spread evenly over top. Sprinkle reserved seeds over glaze. Chill cake to set glaze, at least 1 hour. DO AHEAD: can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep chilled.
Combine diced mango, pineapple, star fruit, and remaining 1 tablespoon sugar in medium bowl. Mix in fruit (including seeds) from 1 reserved passion fruit. Chill compote until ready to use, up to 2 hours.
Cut around pan sides to release cake. Remove pan sides. Cut cheesecake into wedges. Serve with compote.

Sablé Galette Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup (2 sticks) parve margarine, cut into tablespoons
Dash of salt
1/2 cup plus 1 teaspoon sugar, divided
2 large egg yolks, divided
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 tablespoons orange blossom water (optional)
1 tablespoon cold water plus 1/2 tablespoon water, divided

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Place the flour, margarine, salt and 1/2 cup of the sugar in the bowl of a food processor fitted with a metal blade. Pulse about seven times, or until the mixture looks like sand. You can also do this by hand in a large bowl with two knives or a pastry cutter. Add 1 egg yolk, the vanilla, orange blossom water, if using, and the tablespoon of cold water. Process or mix just until the dough comes together.
2. Place a large piece of parchment on the counter and grease lightly using the paper or foil wrapper that wrapped the margarine. Dump the dough onto the greased parchment and, using a rolling pin, roll into a large circle, about 9 inches in diameter.
3. To decorate the edge of the cookie, using the flat end of the handle of a wooden spoon, or the tip of your index finger, make indentations one after the other all around the outside of the circle.
4. Whisk together the remaining egg yolk with the 1/2 tablespoon of water. Brush the top of the cookie with egg wash. Using the tines of a fork, make one set of lines straight across the top of the cookie. Make another set about 2 inches below the first. Repeat until you have four to five sets of lines. Now slide the parchment a quarter turn to the right and make four to five additional sets of lines, each about 2 inches apart. The new set of lines should cross the first set of lines on an angle, creating a diamond-shaped grid.
5. Sprinkle the top of the cookie with the remaining teaspoon of sugar. Slide the parchment onto a cookie sheet and bake for 35 to 37 minutes, until the edges start to look golden. Remove from the oven and immediately cut the cookie into 8 or 12 large wedges or about eighteen 1 x 3-inch bars, if you like. If you wait until the cookie cools to cut it, you will not get nice clean edges.

Maple and Chocolate Chip Shortbread 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, plus additional for pan
7 tablespoons finely ground maple sugar, divided
1/4 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/4 cup (about) bittersweet chocolate chips
2 teaspoons pure maple syrup (preferably Grade B)
Test kitchen tip: If maple sugar is coarse, grind it in a food processor until it resembles granulated sugar.

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Butter 9-inch diameter tart pan with removable bottom. Using electric mixer, beat room-temperature butter, 6 tablespoons maple sugar, and coarse salt in large bowl until light and fluffy and sugar is dissolved. Add flour and beat just until blended. Pat dough evenly onto bottom of prepared pan. Press chocolate chips into dough in random pattern, spacing chips 1/2 inch apart (chips should show). Brush dough with maple syrup and sprinkle evenly with remaining 1 tablespoon maple sugar.
Bake shortbread until golden brown and firm to touch, about 55 minutes. Transfer pan to rack and cool shortbread 10 minutes. Gently push tart pan bottom up, releasing shortbread. Cut warm shortbread into 16 wedges. Cool shortbread wedges completely and serve.

Kolacky 
6 ounces (about 3/4 cup) cream cheese, at room temperature
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
About 3/4 cup prepared poppy-seed, apricot, or prune filling or thick jam of choice
Sifted confectioners' sugar for dusting

1. In a large bowl, with an electric mixer, beat together the cream cheese, butter, and sugar on medium speed until light, about 2 minutes. On low speed, gradually beat in the flour just until mixed. The dough will be soft and sticky.
2. Divide the dough in half. Pat each half into a thick disk and wrap separately in plastic wrap. Refrigerate until firm enough to handle, at least 1 hour or up to 1 day.
3. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly grease or spray cookie sheets.
4. Dust a pastry cloth or board with flour or confectioners' sugar. Remove 1 dough disk from the refrigerator and place it on the pastry cloth. Keep the remaining dough disk refrigerated. Roll out the dough into a square or rectangle 1/8 inch thick. Cut into 2 1/2-inch squares.
5. Place 1 teaspoon of the filling in the center of each square. Pull 2 opposite corners of the square into the middle, and pinch the edges together to seal. Place the cookies on the prepared cookie sheets, spacing them about 1 1/2 inches apart. Repeat with the remaining dough and filling.
6. Bake in the center of the oven until lightly golden, 12 to 15 minutes. Let cool on the cookie sheets for 1 to 2 minutes, then transfer to wire racks. Dust the tops with sifted confectioners' sugar while still warm, then let cool completely.

Toffee Squares 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups all-purpose flour
7 to 8 ounces milk chocolate, broken into pieces, or 1 1/2 cups milk chocolate chips
1 cup chopped almonds, toasted

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line a 9-by-13-inch baking pan with parchment.
2. Prepare the crust. In a large bowl, with an electric mixer, beat together the butter and sugar on medium speed until light, about 2 minutes. Beat in the egg yolk, vanilla, and salt. On low speed, gradually beat in the flour just until mixed. The dough will be stiff. Pat the dough evenly over the bottom of the baking pan.
3. Bake in the center of the oven until pale gold on top, about 20 minutes.
4. Remove the pan from the oven and scatter the chocolate pieces evenly over the crust. Return the pan to the oven for 1 minute. Remove the pan again and, using a knife, spread the chocolate evenly over the crust. Sprinkle evenly with the almonds.
5. Let cool completely in the pan on a wire rack. Using a sharp knife, cut into small squares, then carefully remove from the pan with a small offset spatula or an icing spatula.

Maple-Gingerbread Layer Cake with Salted Maple-Caramel Sauce 
3/4 cup pecan halves, toasted
1/4 cup pure maple syrup (preferably Grade B)
Coarse kosher salt
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons Chinese five-spice powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1/3 cup chopped crystallized ginger (1 1/2 to 2 ounces)
1 cup maple sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
3/4 cup hot water
2/3 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
1 1/3 cups chilled crème fraîche
1 1/3 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
1/2 cup maple sugar
6 tablespoons powdered sugar
Salted Maple-Caramel Sauce
Ingredient info: Chinese five-spice powder-a spice blend that usually contains ground fennel seeds, Sichuan peppercorns, cinnamon, star anise, and cloves-is available in the spice section of most supermarkets. Crème fraîche is sold at most supermarkets and at specialty foods stores.

Place large piece of foil on work surface. Combine nuts and maple syrup in heavy medium skillet (do not use nonstick) over medium-high heat and bring to boil, tossing to coat. Cook until syrup is dark amber and almost cooked away and thickly coats nuts, tossing often, 3 to 3 1/2 minutes. Scrape nuts onto foil. Working quickly with 2 forks, separate nuts. Sprinkle with coarse salt. Cool until coating is crisp and hard, about 1 hour. DO AHEAD: Pecans can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Combine first 4 ingredients in processor; add ginger. Blend until ginger is finely ground, about 1 minute. Using mixer, beat maple sugar and butter in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time (batter may look curdled). Stir 3/4 cup hot water and molasses in small bowl. Beat dry ingredients into butter mixture in 4 additions alternately with molasses mixture in 3 additions.
Divide batter between prepared pans (about 21/2 cups each). Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, 30 to 32 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks.
Combine crème fraîche, cream, and both sugars in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat until very thick and stiff.
Cut around pan sides to loosen cake layers; turn out onto racks. Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread with 1 1/3 cups frosting. Drizzle with 3 tablespoons caramel sauce. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining frosting smoothly over top and sides of cake. Drizzle top of cake with 3 tablespoons sauce. Cover with cake dome; chill at least 1 hour. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead; keep chilled. Let stand at room temperature 30 minutes before continuing.
Cut pecans into pieces or leave whole. Press pecans into frosting on sides of cake. Cut cake into wedges. Spoon sauce over.

Blueberry and Cream Cookies 
2 cups (4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups plus 2 tablespoons (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons light corn syrup
2 large eggs
5 1/4 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1 1/2 cups Milk Crumbs
1 1/2 cups dried blueberries
stand mixer with paddle attachment

Combine butter, both sugars, and corn syrup in large bowl of stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment. Beat on medium-high speed until fluffy and pale, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl, about 3 minutes. Add eggs; beat on medium-high speed until mixture is very pale and sugar is completely dissolved, about 10 minutes. Add flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt; beat on low speed just until blended, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl. Add Milk Crumbs; mix on low speed just until incorporated. Remove bowl from mixer. Stir in blueberries just until evenly distributed (dough will be very sticky).
Using 1/4-cup ice cream scoop for each cookie, drop dough onto 2 large rimmed baking sheets. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate at least 24 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled until baking time.
Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Line 2 large (18x12-inch) rimmed baking sheets with parchment. Transfer 6 chilled dough scoops to each sheet, spacing at least 4 inches apart (cookies will spread). Bake cookies, 2 sheets at a time, until golden, reversing sheets halfway through baking, 20 to 22 minutes total. Repeat with remaining chilled dough, cooling and relining sheets between batches. Transfer cookies to racks; cool completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Store in airtight containers at room temperature.

Zucchini-Pecan Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
3/4 cup olive oil (not extra-virgin)
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups coarsely grated zucchini (about 8 ounces)
3/4 cup chopped pecans
1/2 8-ounce package Philadelphia brand cream cheese (do not use reduced-fat or fat-free), room temperature
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with parchment paper. Coat parchment paper with nonstick spray.
Whisk flour, baking powder, coarse salt, cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg in medium bowl to blend well. Whisk oil, sugar, eggs, and vanilla in large bowl to blend well; fold in flour mixture, then grated zucchini and pecans. Transfer cake batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan on rack, about 1 hour. Cut around sides of pan to loosen. Turn cake out onto platter; peel off parchment paper.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter in medium bowl until blended. Beat in sugar, vanilla, and cinnamon. Spread frosting thickly over top of cake. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill.
Cut cake into wedges and serve.

Mexican Chocolate Ice Cream Cake with Orange Meringue 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/3 cup all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
Pinch of salt
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 4 pieces
1/3 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder
3/4 cup sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
12 ounces bittersweet chocolate (do not exceed 61% cacao), chopped
2 3/4 cups half and half, divided
6 large egg yolks
2/3 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Pinch of salt
4 large egg whites, room temperature
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
Pinch of salt
1/2 cup sugar
2 teaspoons finely grated orange peel
9-inch-diameter springform pan with 3-inch-high sides
Candy thermometer
Ice cream maker
Kitchen torch
Soften about 6 cups of purchased chocolate ice cream. Mix in 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon. Spoon the ice cream over the baked brownie layer, freeze, and continue with the recipe.

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line inside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 3-inch-high sides with foil. Coat lightly with nonstick spray. Whisk flour and next 3 ingredients in small bowl. Melt butter in medium saucepan over medium low heat. Remove from heat; whisk in cocoa powder, then sugar. If batter is still hot, let cool. Whisk in egg and vanilla, then flour mixture. Spread batter over bottom of pan.
Bake brownie layer until tester inserted into center comes out with a few moist crumbs attached, 15 to 17 minutes. Cool in pan on rack. Cover and freeze.
Stir chocolate and 1 1/2 cups half and half in medium saucepan over medium heat until chocolate is melted, stirring often. Remove from heat. Whisk egg yolks and next 3 ingredients in medium bowl. Gradually whisk in hot chocolate mixture; return to saucepan. Cook over medium-low heat until mixture leaves path on back of spoon when finger is drawn across and custard registers 170 degrees F to 175 degrees F on candy thermometer, stirring constantly, 6 to 8 minutes.
Strain custard into another medium bowl. Add remaining 1 1/4 cups half and half. Refrigerate until cold, about 3 hours.
Process custard in ice cream maker. Transfer to pan; spread evenly over brownie layer. Cover; freeze overnight. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Keep frozen.
Using electric mixer, beat egg whites in large bowl until foamy. Add cream of tartar and pinch of salt. Beat until soft peaks form. With mixer running, gradually add sugar. Continue to beat until meringue forms stiff glossy peaks. Beat in orange peel. Spread over ice cream layer. Using spatula or back of spoon, swirl decoratively, forming peaks. Freeze until firm, at least 3 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep frozen.
Remove cake from freezer. Release pan sides; remove foil. Transfer cake to plate. Using kitchen torch, brown meringue or place under broiler 1 to 2 minutes to brown.

Orange Polenta Cake with Vanilla-Scented Plums and Blackberries and Buttermilk Ice Cream 
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
3/4 cup medium-fine polenta or organic cornmeal (such as Bob's Red Mill)
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 teaspoons (packed) finely grated orange peel
4 large eggs, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup whole-milk plain yogurt
Vanilla-Scented Plums and Blackberries
Buttermilk Ice Cream

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 9 x 5 x 3-inch metal loaf pan. Dust pan with flour; tap out excess. Whisk 1 1/4 cups flour, polenta, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, butter, and orange peel in large bowl until fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla. Add flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with yogurt in 2 additions, beating just until blended after each addition. Spread batter evenly in pan.
Bake cake until golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, 50 to 55 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool in pan 5 minutes. Run knife around cake edges to loosen. Invert cake onto rack, then invert again on rack (top side up). Cool completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap in plastic and store at room temperature.
Cut cake crosswise into 1/2-inch-thick slices; serve with Vanilla-Scented Plums and Blackberries and Buttermilk Ice Cream .

Persimmon Cake with Cream Cheese Icing 
3/4 cup (120 g) dried currants
1/4 cup (60 ml) brandy or whiskey
2 cups (280 g) all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1 2/3 cups (355 g) granulated sugar
3/4 cup (6 ounces/170 g) unsalted butter, melted
1 1/2 cups (375 ml) persimmon purée
3 large eggs, at room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups (150 g) walnuts or pecans, toasted and finely chopped
4 ounces (115 g) cream cheese
1 tablespoon salted butter, at room temperature
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon freshly squeezed lemon juice
2/3 cup (90 g) powdered sugar, sifted
4 or 5 teaspoons water

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Coat a 10-cup (2.5-liter) Bundt cake or tube pan with butter or nonstick cooking spray.
To make the cake, in a small saucepan over medium heat, bring the currants and brandy or whiskey to a boil. Remove from the heat, cover, and let cool.
Into a large bowl, sift together the flour, baking soda, cinnamon, salt, and nutmeg. Stir in the granulated sugar. In a medium bowl, mix together the 3/4 cup (6 ounces/170 g) melted butter, persimmon purée, eggs, and 2 teaspoons vanilla.
Make a well in the center of the flour mixture, add the persimmon mixture, and gently stir. Fold in the currants, along with any unabsorbed liquid, and the nuts. Mix just until everything is moistened; don't overmix.
Scrape the batter into the prepared pan and bake until a toothpick inserted into the cake comes out clean, about 1 hour. Remove from the oven and let cool completely. Once cool, invert the cake onto a serving plate.
To make the icing, in a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat together the cream cheese and 1 tablespoon butter on high speed until smooth. Beat in the 1/2 teaspoon vanilla and the lemon juice, then gradually add the powdered sugar, beating on high speed until smooth. Add the 4 teaspoons water; the icing should be pourable. If necessary, add 1 more teaspoon water.
Spoon the icing around the top of the cake, then tap the plate on a folded kitchen towel on the countertop to encourage the icing to run down the sides of the cake.
This cake will keep for 4 days at room temperature.
If you don't have persimmons, or if they're not in season, you can substitute unsweetened applesauce or banana purée for the persimmon purée.

Butter Cookies 
1 1/2 sticks butter at room temperature
1 1/2 cups flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup light brown sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
A pinch of salt
1/2 cup chopped walnuts (optional)

In a medium-sized bowl, mix together flour, baking soda, and salt. In a separate bowl, beat egg, sugar, and vanilla; then add butter to egg and sugar mixture and beat until light and fluffy. Add to dry ingredients and mix until blended. At this point you may also add 1/2 cup of coarsely chopped walnuts.
Divide cookie dough into two parts and roll in wax paper. Freeze overnight, or at least 4 hours. With a serrated knife, carefully cut frozen dough into slices about 1/4 inch thick. Bake on cookie sheet for 10 to 12 minutes at 350 degrees. Makes about 2 dozen cookies.

Chocolate Chip-Peanut Butter Cookies 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup natural no-stir crunchy (or chunky) peanut butter
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/3 cup plus 1/4 cup sugar
1/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup bittersweet or semisweet chocolate chips
1 2.1-ounce Butterfinger candy bar, chopped (scant 1/2 cup)

Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat peanut butter, butter, 1/3 cup sugar, and brown sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in egg and vanilla extract, then flour mixture (dough will look crumbly). Stir in bittersweet chocolate chips and chopped Butterfinger candy.
Place remaining 1/4 cup sugar in small bowl. Using 1 1/2 tablespoons dough for each cookie, roll dough between palms to form balls. Roll balls in sugar and place on prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Using bottom of glass or measuring cup, press cookies into 1/3-inch-thick rounds.
Bake cookies until edges are golden brown, 15 to 16 minutes, reversing sheets halfway through cooking time for even baking. Transfer parchment paper with cookies to rack and cool.

Roulade au Chocolat Pour Julia 
1 1/2 cups plus 2 tablespoons granulated sugar
1 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 eggs, separated
3/4 cup vegetable oil
1/2 cup water
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 egg whites
Chocolate-hazelnut mousse

1. Position the rack in the center of the oven and preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Butter or coat with vegetable spray a baking tray, 12 x 17 x 2 inches. Line with parchment paper and then spray the paper. Set aside.
2. Sift together 1 cup of the sugar, the flour, cocoa, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Set aside.
3. In the large bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a paddle or beaters, beat the egg yolks at high speed. Turn the machine to low and pour in the oil, water, and vanilla. Gradually add the sifted ingredients and, when almost incorporated, turn the speed to medium and beat until well combined.
4. In another clean large bowl, with whip or clean beaters, whip the 6 egg whites until soft peaks form. Start on medium speed and raise the speed as the peaks begin to form. Gradually pour in the remaining 1/2 cup sugar and continue to whip until the whites are shiny and firm, but not stiff. With a rubber spatula, fold one-quarter of the whites into the chocolate mixture, then scrape the chocolate mixture back into the whites, quickly folding until completely incorporated.
5. Scrape into the prepared pan and spread with an offset spatula, smoothing and leveling the top. Bake until the edges of the cake pull away from the pan and the cake springs back when lightly pressed, 25 to 30 minutes. Cool on a rack.
6. When completely cool, place the pan on a firm surface. With a sharp knife, cut around the outside edges of the entire cake, separating the cake from the pan. Sprinkle 2 tablespoons of granulated sugar over the surface of the cake (to prevent sticking when you invert the cake). Invert a second baking tray on the top of the cake and flip the cake over onto the second tray. Carefully peel off the parchment paper, turn the paper over, and place back on the cake. Invert the cake and the paper so that the paper is on the baking tray and the sugared side is on top. You are now ready to spread the filling onto the cake.
7. Fill and roll the cake: Place the cake with one of the 17-inch sides directly in front of you. Using your spatula, spread 11 2 cups of the Chocolate-Hazelnut Mousse over the surface of the cake to the edge of three of the sides, leaving about a 1-inch space along the one side directly in front of you (see photo). Level the filling. Refrigerate the remaining mousse, covered.
8. Starting with the 17-inch side in front of you, using the parchment paper to help you, roll the cake toward the opposite side, completely enclosing the filling (see photo). Make certain that you do not roll the paper into the cake. Tuck the paper around the rolled cake to secure (see photo). Leave the cake on the pan and refrigerate until the filling is firm, at least 2 hours, up to overnight.
9. To serve, remove the cake from the refrigerator and unroll out of the paper onto a firm surface. Using a long serrated knife, cut a 2-inch diagonal piece off each end. With a #3 star tip fitted into a pastry bag, pipe 10 or 12 rosettes of mousse spaced evenly across the tip of the cake. Dust with sifted confectioners' sugar. Carefully transfer to a serving platter and refrigerate until needed. When ready to serve, cut into 10 or 12 portions. Pass the remaining mousse.

Chocolate Raspberry Layer Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1 3/4 cups sugar
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup water
3/4 cup buttermilk
3/4 cup vegetable oil
3 large eggs
18 ounces bittersweet chocolate (do not exceed 61% cacao), chopped
2 1/4 cups heavy whipping cream
6 tablespoons seedless raspberry jam, stirred to loosen, divided
2 6-ounce containers fresh raspberries
Powdered sugar
2 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides

Position racks in top and bottom third of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Coat two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Line bottoms with parchment paper rounds; spray rounds. Sift flour, sugar, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt into large bowl; whisk to blend and form well in center. Whisk 1 cup water, buttermilk, oil, and eggs in medium bowl to blend. Pour wet ingredients into well in dry ingredients; whisk just to blend. Divide cake batter between prepared pans (about 3 cups each).
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. (If cakes form domes, place kitchen towel atop hot cakes, then press gently with palm of hand to level.) Cool completely in pans on cooling racks. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover cakes in pans and let stand at room temperature.
Place chopped chocolate in medium bowl. Bring cream just to boil in heavy medium saucepan. Pour over chocolate. Let stand 1 minute, then stir until ganache is melted and smooth. Transfer 1 1/4 cups ganache to small bowl. Cover and refrigerate until ganache is thick enough to spread, stirring occasionally, about 1 hour. Let remaining ganache stand at room temperature to cool until barely lukewarm.
Place rack inside rimmed baking sheet. Carefully run knife around pan edges to release cakes. Invert 1 cake layer onto cardboard round or bottom of 9-inch-diameter tart pan with removable bottom. Peel off parchment paper. Place cake layer on round on prepared rack. Spread 3 tablespoons jam over top. Spoon dollops of chilled ganache over, then spread evenly. Invert second cake layer onto another cardboard round or tart pan bottom. Peel off parchment paper. Carefully slide cake off round and onto frosted cake layer on rack. Spread remaining 3 tablespoons raspberry jam over top of second cake layer. Pour half of barely lukewarm ganache over cake, spreading over sides to cover. Freeze until ganache sets, about 30 minutes. Pour remaining ganache over cake, allowing to drip down sides and spreading over sides if needed for even coverage and to smooth edges. Freeze to set ganache, about 30 minutes. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let stand at room temperature 2 hours before continuing.
Arrange raspberries in concentric circles atop cake. Sift powdered sugar lightly over raspberries and serve.
A two-step process ensures a picture-perfect dessert. First, a thin layer of ganache is spread over the cake and chilled briefly to set (this is called a crumb coat). Another layer of ganache is then poured over the cake, which gives the treat a smooth finish.

Cassata Cake 
2 ounces (1/4 cup) all-purpose flour
1 cup milk
8 ounces (2 sticks) unsalted butter
8 ounces (1 cup) superfine granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon citrus oil (pure orange or lemon oil)
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup ricotta cheese
9 ounces (1 3/4 cups) all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
6 eggs, separated
16 ounces (2 cups) superfine granulated sugar, divided
8 ounces (2 sticks) unsalted butter
1 pint fresh strawberries, washed, hulled, and sliced
4 cups whipped cream

1. To make the filling, quickly whisk together 4 tablespoons of the milk with the flour. The slurry will be somewhat thick, so whisk thoroughly to make it smooth. Press out any lumps with a flexible spatula, if necessary.
2. Whisk in the rest of the milk and transfer the mixture to a 2-quart heavy-bottom saucepan. Bring to a simmer over medium heat, whisking constantly. Once bubbles that burp steam form, remove the pot from the heat and continue to stir for another 30 seconds.
3. Cover the milk mixture with plastic wrap pressed directly against the surface. Cool for 15 to 30 minutes.
4. Meanwhile, combine the butter, sugar, citrus oil, and vanilla in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and beat on high speed for up to 5 minutes.
5. Add the milk mixture and continue to beat on high speed until the filling is smooth, another 5 minutes. Beat in the ricotta cheese 1 tablespoon at a time.
6. Preheat the oven to 335 degrees F and place the rack in the middle position. Line the bottoms of three 9-by-2- inch round pans with parchment.
7. Measure the flour, cornstarch, baking powder, and salt into one bowl, and the milk and vanilla into a separate bowl. Whisk each to combine.
8. In the standing mixer fitted with the wire whip attachment, beat the egg whites on high speed to a stiff peak. Drizzle in 1 cup of the sugar while the mixer is running. Scoop the meringue into a large bowl and set aside.
9. Lightly wipe the mixer bowl and replace the wire whip with the paddle attachment. Cream the butter with the remaining 1 cup of sugar on low speed.
10. Add the egg yolks one at a time. Scrape the sides of the bowl all the way to the bottom using a flexible spatula and mix on low speed until the ingredients are thoroughly combined.
11. Alternately add the dry and wet ingredients about a quarter at a time without pausing between additions.
12. Stop the mixer and gently fold the meringue into the batter with a flexible spatula. Pour the mixture evenly into the prepared pans and bake for 27 to 30 minutes, or until the cake bounces back when lightly pressed and a wooden skewer inserted in the center comes out clean.
13. Cool the cakes for 2 minutes, then run an offset spatula around the edges and invert the cakes onto a flat surface. They will be very fragile, so handle them with care.
14. Assemble the extravagant cake by adding about 1 cup each of the fresh strawberries and the ricotta filling between the layers. Cover the outside of the cake with the whipped cream. Add more fresh strawberries around the edge of the cake if you like.

Tennessee Mountain Stack Cake 
21 ounces (4 1/4 cups) all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
6 ounces (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
10 ounces (1 1/4 cups) superfine granulated sugar
3/4 cup molasses
2 eggs
1/2 cup buttermilk
8 to 12 cups dried apples
2 pounds (4 cups) superfine granulated sugar
2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 teaspoons nutmeg
2 tablespoons molasses
3 cups water
Confectioners' sugar

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F and place the rack in the middle position.
2. Combine the dry ingredients in a bowl and whisk to combine. Set aside.
3. Combine the butter and sugar in the bowl of a standing mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and mix on medium speed until wet and grainy.
4. Add the molasses. Scrape the sides of the bowl with a flexible spatula to get all of the molasses into the mixture.
5. Add the eggs one at a time. Scrape all the way to the bottom of the bowl and mix on low speed.
6. Alternately add the buttermilk and the dry mixture about a quarter at a time. Stop the mixer to scrape the bowl and turn it on again on low speed for about 10 seconds. The mixture should be stiff like a soft cookie dough.
7. Shape the dough into a ball and wrap it in plastic wrap. Refrigerate for 30 minutes.
8. Divide the dough into 6 or 8 equal portions and place each one on a round piece of parchment paper a little larger than a 9-inch cake pan. Roll out the dough to the size of the parchment. Place the cake pan over the disk and trim away the excess around the edge.
9. Leaving the parchment paper underneath, lift the disks onto baking sheets and bake them for approximately 10 minutes, or until the top surface appears dry and a wooden skewer inserted in the center comes out clean.
10. Slide the disks off the baking sheet onto a flat surface to cool.
11. To make the filling, combine all the ingredients in a large, heavy-bottom saucepan and bring to a light simmer. Immediately transfer to the work bowl of a food processor fitted with the steel blade and pulse into a thick paste.
12. To assemble the cake, spread about 1 cup of the filling onto each layer, taking care to center each disk on top of the one beneath it. Repeat until all the layers are used. Do not put apple filling on top of the cake.
13. Wrap the cake well and refrigerate it for up to 24 hours. This gives the apple filling time to work itself into the cake. Dust with confectioners' sugar and serve chilled.

Coconut Sheet Cake with Hibiscus Sauce 
2 cups water
1 cup dried hibiscus flowers (about 1 1/2 ounces)
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon finely grated lime peel
1 teaspoon finely grated orange peel
1 3/4 cups cake flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup buttermilk
4 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon coconut extract
1 1/3 cups sugar
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
4 tablespoons sweetened cream of coconut (such as Coco López), divided
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut, lightly toasted
Ingredient info: Dried hibiscus flowers, also called jamaica flowers, are available at some natural foods stores and at Latin markets. Look for sweetened cream of coconut in the liquor section of most supermarkets.
Test-kitchen tip: When you're reducing the hibiscus sauce, spoon a bit of the hot sauce on a chilled plate to see how thick it will be when it is refrigerated.

Bring 2 cups water to boil in small saucepan. Stir in hibiscus flowers. Remove from heat; let steep uncovered 10 minutes.
Pour hibiscus mixture through fine-mesh sieve set over bowl, pressing on solids to extract all liquid; discard solids. Return hibiscus liquid to same saucepan. Add sugar; bring to boil, stirring until sugar dissolves. Boil gently over medium heat until liquid is reduced to 1 cup, 10 to 12 minutes. Remove from heat. Stir in lemon peel, lime peel, and orange peel; steep 10 minutes. Strain sauce into bowl. Cover; chill until cold, at least 2 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Keep chilled.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 13 x 9 x 2-inch metal baking pan. Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl. Whisk buttermilk, egg whites, and coconut extract in another medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add flour mixture to butter mixture in 3 additions alternately with buttermilk mixture in 2 additions, beating to blend well between additions and occasionally scraping bottom and sides of bowl with rubber spatula. Transfer batter to pan; spread evenly.
Bake cake until pale golden and tester inserted into center comes out with some crumbs attached, 29 to 32 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan on rack. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover pan tightly and store cake at room temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat whipping cream and 2 tablespoons cream of coconut in large bowl until peaks form. Spread whipped cream over top of cake. Drizzle 2 tablespoons cream of coconut over whipped cream. Using table knife, swirl cream of coconut throughout whipped cream. Sprinkle toasted coconut over.
Cut cake into squares; transfer to plates. Drizzle hibiscus sauce around cake.

Rosemary Cookies with Tomato Jam 
2 cups (280 g) all-purpose flour
1/4 cup (40 g) stone-ground yellow cornmeal or polenta
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (8 ounces/225 g) unsalted butter, at room temperature
10 tablespoons (135 g) sugar
2 large egg yolks
1 1/2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh rosemary leaves
Tomato Jam

In a small bowl, whisk together the flour, cornmeal, and salt.
In a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment (or in a bowl by hand), beat together the butter and sugar on medium speed just until smooth. Mix in the egg yolks, then the rosemary. Add the flour mixture and mix until the dough is smooth and holds together.
On a lightly floured work surface, divide the dough in half. Shape each half into a log about 6 inches (15 cm) long and 1 3/4 inches (4 cm) in diameter. Wrap the logs in plastic wrap and refrigerate until chilled and firm, at least 1 hour.
Position racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven; preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C). Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone baking mats.
Slice the logs into disks 1/4 inch (6 mm) inch thick and place the disks about 1/2 inch (1.5 cm) apart on the prepared baking sheets.
Bake, rotating the baking sheets midway through baking, until the edges of the cookies are lightly browned, about 12 minutes. Let cool completely.
Spread a scant 1 1/2 teaspoons of the jam on the underside of half of the cookies. Top the jam with a second cookie, bottom side down, to make sandwiches.
The dough can be frozen for up to 1 month. Once filled, the cookies can be stored in an airtight container for up to 3 days.

Gluten-Free Coconut Layer Cake 
3 cups heavy cream, chilled
9 ounces white chocolate, coarsely chopped
2 teaspoons coconut or golden rum
1/8 teaspoon fine sea salt
1 3/4 cup almond flour
2 tablespoons coconut flour
10 large eggs, at room temperature, separated
1 tablespoon coconut or golden rum
2 cups confectioner's sugar, sifted
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
2 cups (3 ounces) unsweetened coconut flakes, for coating
Special equipment: 3 (9-inch) round cake pans

Chill bowl of stand mixer and whisk attachment or large metal bowl and beaters for at least 15 minutes.
In small saucepan over moderate heat, bring 1 cup cream to simmer. Transfer white chocolate to medium heatproof bowl, pour hot cream over, and whisk until smooth. Whisk in rum and salt. Let cool at room temperature until thickened slightly, about 1 hour.
In chilled bowl of electric mixer fitted with whisk attachment, beat remaining 2 cups cream at moderately high speed until whisk leaves marks but cream does not quite hold soft peaks, 6 to 8 minutes. Turn mixer off, then add white chocolate mixture and beat just until stiff peaks begin to form, about 5 minutes. (Do not overbeat, or cream will curdle.) Refrigerate until firm, about 3 hours. (Frosting can be made ahead and refrigerated, covered, up to 8 hours.)
Preheat oven to 350F. Line bottoms of cake pans with parchment paper.
In large bowl, whisk together almond and coconut flours.
In bowl of electric mixer fitted with whisk attachment, beat egg yolks at high speed until pale yellow and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. Reduce speed to moderately low and beat in rum and all but 1 tablespoon confectioner's sugar. Scrape down bowl, then increase speed to high and beat until pale and thick, about 1 minute. Reduce speed to low and gradually add almond and coconut flour mixture, scraping down bowl and folding in last of flour by hand. Set aside.
In clean dry bowl of electric mixer fitted with whisk attachment, beat egg whites on moderate speed until very foamy, about 1 minute. Beat in cream of tartar, salt, and remaining 1 tablespoon confectioner's sugar. Increase speed to moderately high and beat until whites hold stiff peaks, about 2 minutes. Fold 1 cup beaten egg whites into yolk mixture to lighten, then gently fold in remaining whites. Divide batter between pans, smoothing tops, and bake until layers are golden brown and toothpick inserted in center comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes. Invert pans onto wire racks and cool completely, at least 1 hour. Run knife around cake layers to loosen, invert onto rack, and peel off the parchment.
Layer cake, using 1 cup frosting between each layer, then frost top and sides with remaining frosting. Press coconut flakes onto the frosting. Refrigerate until frosting is firm, at least 3 hours or overnight.

Carrot Cake with Lime and Mascarpone Topping 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
2 level teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon, preferably freshly ground
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1 cup light muscovado or light brown sugar
2/3 cup (scant) sunflower oil
2 organic large eggs
2 1/2 cups coarsely grated organic carrots
3/4 cup shelled walnuts, roughly chopped
1 lime
1 cup (scant) mascarpone
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup unrefined confectioners' sugar
juice of 1/2 lemon, or to taste

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease and line two 8 inch cake pans (or one deep pan). Sift the flour and baking powder together into a large bowl and mix in the spices.
Using an electric mixer, whisk together the muscovado (or brown) sugar, sunflower oil, and eggs until smooth. With a large metal spoon, fold in the grated carrots and chopped walnuts, then fold in the flour and spices until evenly combined.
Spoon the mixture into the prepared cake pan(s), set on a baking tray, and bake until a skewer inserted into the center comes out clean; test after 25 minutes for layer cake; 40 minutes for a deep cake. Leave to cool in the pan(s) on a wire rack.
For the frosting, pare a few shreds of lime zest with a zester and set aside; grate the rest of the zest and squeeze the juice from one half. In a bowl, beat the mascarpone with the softened butter, sugar, grated lime zest, and the lime and lemon juices. Taste. I like a good sharp topping, so sometimes add more lime, sometimes more lemon juice.
Sandwich the layers together with some of the mascarpone mixture, (or cut a deep cake into two layers). Spread the frosting over the top of the cake and smooth it down the sides to cover completely, then ruffle the surface. Either refrigerate or serve immediately, topped with the reserved zest. I like it a little cold, so that the frosting has set slightly.
Add snowdrops in season!

Espresso Cheesecake 
2 cups chocolate wafer cookies or Oreos, processed until very fine
1/2 pound (2 sticks) unsalted butter, melted
1 1/4 pounds cream cheese, softened
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup fresh espresso grounds (don't use soggy, used grounds. Grind fresh beans into a fine powder and add this directly to the batter.)
3 large eggs plus 1 egg yolk
1 cup brewed coffee
1 tablespoon instant espresso added to the coffee
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 tablespoons all-purpose flour

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Place the cookies in a small bowl, drizzle the butter over them, and stir, making sure the crumbs are evenly coated with butter.
Place the cookie crumbs in an ungreased 9-inch spring-form pan. With your hands, pat and spread the crumbs evenly over the bottom and about 2 inches up the sides of the pan. Bake in the center of the oven for 5 minutes. Remove and set aside to cool to room temperature.
Lower the oven temperature to 200 degrees F.
Place the cream cheese and sugar in the bowl of an electric mixer and, with the whisk attachment, beat on high until smooth. Add the espresso grounds and mix until incorporated.
Add the eggs one at a time, beating until each is completely incorporated. Add the egg yolk.
Add the coffee mixture, vanilla, and flour. Mix until smooth and all ingredients are well incorporated.
Pour the filling into the cooled crust and bake in the center of the oven for a few hours&151;;at least two hours, and maybe as long as four hours.
You can check for doneness by giving the pan a little shake. If it wobbles like it's still very liquid in the center, keep going. This could take hours. But I'm betting you want a cheesecake with a creamy-smooth consistency and no cracks. So just wait. If you give the cheesecake a shimmy and it jiggles just a little in the middle but otherwise seems nice and firm, turn off the oven but leave the cheesecake inside to cool slowly. Then remove the cheesecake from the oven and set aside to cool completely in the pan.
Unmold the cheesecake and refrigerate, uncovered, for at least 3 hours before serving.

Christmas Coconut Cake 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter at room temperature
2 cups sugar
3 cups all-purpose flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon kosher salt
1/4 cup whole milk
1/2 cup unsweetened coconut milk (available canned in the Asian section of most grocery stores, or see Tip)
1/4 cup coconut cream (Coco Lopez)
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
8 large egg whites at room temperature
1 cup cold heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons coconut cream (Coco Lopez)
1/2 cup grated fresh coconut (optional, see Tip)
2 large egg whites
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/3 cup cold water
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1/2 cup mini marshmallows
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 to 4 cups unsweetened flaked coconut for decorating

Place an oven rack in the bottom third of the oven and another in the top third of the oven. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Butter three 9-inch cake pans, then line each with a parchment paper round. Butter the paper and dust the pans with flour; knock out the excess.
Using an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter and sugar on medium-high speed until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Use a rubber spatula to scrape down the sides of the bowl. In a medium bowl, stir together the flour, baking powder, and salt to blend. In a small bowl, stir together the milk, coconut milk, and coconut cream until smooth. Add the flour mixture in 3 increments, alternating with the milk mixture in 2 increments, starting and ending with the flour mixture. After each addition, mix at low speed just to combine the ingredients. Stir in the vanilla.
Place an oven rack in the bottom third of the oven and another in the top third of the oven. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Butter three 9-inch cake pans, then line each with a parchment paper round. Butter the paper and dust the pans with flour; knock out the excess.
Using an electric mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, beat the cream on high speed until soft peaks form. Beat in the coconut cream and the fresh coconut, if using.
Whisk the egg whites, sugar, water, cream of tartar, and salt in a large stainless-steel bowl until thoroughly combined. Place the bowl over a saucepan filled with 2 inches of barely simmering water. Using a hand beater or handheld electric mixer, continue beating the egg white mixture for 4 minutes. Add the mini marshmallows in 2 increments while continuing to beat. Wait until the first batch of marshmallows has melted before adding the second. Continue beating for 2 to 3 minutes more, until stiff peaks form. Remove from the heat, stir in the vanilla, and continue beating until the frosting is thick enough to spread.
Stack one cake layer on a serving plate and spread the top with half of the whipped cream filling. Repeat with a second layer. Stack the final cake layer on top of the first two and cover the cake's top and sides with the frosting. Sprinkle the coconut on the top and sides of the cake.
Cover the cake loosely with plastic wrap and store for 1 day at room temperature or up to 3 days in the refrigerator. Bring to room temperature before serving.
It's challenging to press coconut into the sides of the cake. When pressing the coconut in, the icing invariably sticks to my fingers and mars the frosting's finish. I've discovered that throwing small handfuls of coconut toward the side of the cake makes it adhere quite well—a messy but effective technique for creating a gorgeous-looking cake.
For those who want to follow Aunt Molly's original recipe, here are her directions for extracting coconut meat and liquid from a fresh coconut:  inchFirst buy a fresh coconut. To select the best one, shake it to listen for a lot of milk inside. Prepare the coconut by first making a hole or two in one end with a hammer and ice pick. Stand the coconut up over a small bowl or glass measuring cup to catch the milk as it drains out. Next, crack the hard outer shell with a hammer, then pry off the pieces. The inner white coconut meat can then be grated [with a handheld microplane grater]. Refrigerate both the milk and grated coconut until ready to use. inch

Apple-Spice Layer Cake with Caramel Swirl Icing 
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter at room temperature
3 cups sugar
2 tablespoons light molasses
6 large eggs
3 cups cake flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
2 tablespoons ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons ground allspice
1 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1 cup sour cream
3 Granny Smith apples, peeled and shredded (about 1 1/2 cups)
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon grated fresh ginger (optional)
One 14-ounce bag caramels
4 tablespoons heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons plus 1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter at room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 cups powdered sugar
1 cup (8 ounces) mascarpone (Italian cream cheese, available at most grocery stores)
2 cups pecan pieces, toasted (optional)

Place one oven rack in the bottom third of the oven and a second rack in the top third of the oven. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease three 9-inch cake pans with butter or cooking spray, then line each with a parchment paper round and grease the rounds. Using an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, cream the butter and sugar on medium-high speed until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula. Beat in the molasses. Add the eggs, one at a time, beating between each addition. In a medium bowl, stir together the flour, baking soda, salt, and ground spices to blend. Add the flour mixture and sour cream alternately to the batter. (Start and end with the flour mixture, adding the flour mixture in 3 increments and the sour cream in 2 increments.) After each addition, mix on low speed just to combine the ingredients. Stir in the shredded apples, vanilla, and ginger.
Spoon the batter (it will be thick) evenly into the prepared pans. Place two cake pans side by side on one rack and the third on the other. Stagger the cake layers on the oven racks so that no layer is directly over another. Bake for 35 to 40 minutes, until firm to the touch. Monitor the layers carefully for doneness; each one may be done at a different time. Remove from the oven and let cool in the pans for 10 minutes. Run a knife around the edges of the pans and unmold the cakes onto wire racks to cool completely, 15 to 30 minutes, before frosting. The cakes can be kept frozen, tightly wrapped in plastic wrap, for up to 3 weeks. Defrost them at room temperature before unwrapping. Frost immediately.
To make the icing: In a medium stainless-steel bowl, combine the unwrapped caramels, 2 tablespoons of the cream, and the 2 tablespoons butter. Place over a saucepan filled with 2 inches of simmering water. Stir the caramel mixture until smooth. Remove the bowl from the heat. Let cool, stirring the mixture every few minutes until cool to the touch, about 20 minutes. (If the mixture is too warm, it will melt the buttercream frosting when it is stirred in later.)
While the caramel is cooling, make the butter cream: Using an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the 1 1/2 cups butter on medium-high speed for about 1 minute, until pale in color. Add the remaining 2 tablespoons cream and the vanilla and powdered sugar, and beat for 3 minutes, until light and fluffy. Add the mascarpone and beat on medium-low speed until incorporated. Do not overbeat the mascarpone, or it may separate. Reserve 1/4 cup of the cooled caramel mixture to drizzle over the cake once it is frosted. Stir the remainder of the caramel into the frosting, using large strokes to create caramel swirls throughout. Don't stir it too much or the ribbons of caramel will disappear.
Place one cake layer on a serving plate and spread a thick blanket of frosting on top. Add the second layer and spread thickly with frosting. Add the third layer and cover the top and sides of the cake with an even layer of frosting. Use a small spoon to drizzle the reserved 1/4 cup of caramel over the top of the cake. Pat on the toasted pecan pieces to cover the sides of the cake. Tip: Using the proper tools for cutting frosted layer cakes ensures that individual servings look as good as they taste. I use a large serrated knife dipped in hot water for cutting. I wipe the knife off with a clean dishcloth after each piece, which ensures that every cut is as clean as the first.

Huguenot Torte 
2 Gala apples
7 ounces (1 cup + 5 tablespoons) all-purpose flour, divided
4 ounces (1 cup) walnuts
3 ounces (3/4 cup) pecans
13 ounces (1 3/4 cups) superfine granulated sugar, divided
2 ounces (1/2 cup) confectioners' sugar, sifted, plus more for dusting
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 eggs

1. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F and place the rack in the middle position. Grease a 9-by-13-inch baking dish.
2. Peel, core, and chop the apples into 1/4-inch cubes. In a large bowl, toss them with 3 tablespoons of the flour to activate the glutens. Use a spoon or flexible spatula, rather than your hands.
3. Grind the nuts, 2 ounces of the superfine sugar, and the confectioners' sugar in a food processor with the steel blade for 20 to 30 seconds. In a bowl, mix together the nuts, the remaining flour, and the salt. Whisk to combine.
4. Combine the eggs and the remaining superfine sugar in a standing mixer fitted with the wire whip attachment and whip at medium speed until stiff, about 4 minutes.
5. Reduce the speed to low and slowly add the nut-and-flour mixture to the eggs.
6. Fold in the apples using a flexible spatula.
7. Distribute the batter evenly into the prepared pan and bake for 35 to 40 minutes, or until a wooden skewer inserted in the center comes out clean.
8. Cool the cake to room temperature, dust the top with confectioners' sugar, and cut slices directly from the baking dish.

Mint-Glazed Butter Thins 
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon pure peppermint extract, divided
1/4 teaspoon salt
11/4 cups all purpose flour
2 cups powdered sugar, divided
2 tablespoons (or more) heavy whipping cream

Position racks in top and bottom third of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large rimmed baking sheets with parchment. Using electric mixer, beat first 4 ingredients, 1/4 teaspoon peppermint extract, and salt in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in flour.
Place 1 cup powdered sugar in bowl. Working with 1 level tablespoon at a time, shape dough into balls; roll in powdered sugar to coat. Place on sheet. Press each lightly with flat-bottomed cup. Sprinkle each with more powdered sugar, then press again to thin 3 1/4-inch round. Bake cookies 8 minutes. Reverse sheets; bake until golden at edges, about 9 minutes longer.
Meanwhile, stir 1 cup powdered sugar, 1/4 teaspoon peppermint extract, and 2 tablespoons cream in small bowl until smooth, adding more cream by 1/2 teaspoonfuls if glaze is too thick to spread.
Transfer cookies to rack; spread glaze over warm cookies. Cool on rack.

Starry Starry Nights 
2 large eggs
2.4 ounces ( 1/4 cup plus one tablespoon) sugar, plus additional for dipping
1 tablespoon honey
8.2 ounces bittersweet chocolate (I use 2 whole bars plus 2 strips of bittersweet Lindt chocolate which comes in a 3.5 ounce bar and is available at most grocery stores)
3 tablespoons butter
2.6 ounces slivered almonds (about 5/8 cup sliver almonds measured before grinding) ground to a fine powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons non-dutch processed cocoa powder

Combine the eggs, sugar, and honey in the bowl of an electric mixer. Beat with the whisk attachment on high speed until the mixture reaches a thick ribbon stage.
Melt the chocolate and butter together in a heatproof bowl over simmering water. Cool slightly.
Toss the almond flour, salt, and cocoa in a bowl until well combined. Add to the melted chocolate and mix until fully incorporated.
Add a quarter of the whipped egg mixture to the chocolate to lighten. Stir until no egg is visible. Gently fold the rest of the egg mixture into the chocolate until well combined, being careful to maintain the aerated quality of the eggs.
Chill until firm.
Place a few tablespoons of sugar in a small bowl. Using the smallest cookie scooper available (I use one the size of a melon baller), scoop individual cookies, dip them in the sugar, and place on a parchment-lined sheet pan 1/2 inch apart. Freeze uncovered until very hard, about an hour.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Just before baking, dip each cookie in sugar again. Bake 10 minutes, turning after 5 minutes to ensure even baking. Cookies should be slightly cracked but the sugar should not be browned.

Porter Cake 
3 2/3 c (1 lb) all-purpose ﬂour
1 tsp grated or ground nutmeg
1 tsp pumpkin pie spice
1 tsp baking powder
Pinch of salt
16 tbsp (2 sticks) butter, softened
1 c (8 oz) light brown sugar
1 lb golden or regular raisins or a mixture of both
3 oz chopped candied peel
2 eggs
One 12-oz bottle of porter or stout

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C). Line the sides and base of an 8-inch high-sided round cake pan (the sides should be about 2 3/4 inches high) with wax paper.
Sift the ﬂour, nutmeg, pie spice, baking powder and salt into a bowl. Rub in the butter, then stir in the sugar, raisins and the candied peel.
Whisk the eggs in another bowl, add the porter or stout, then pour into the dry ingredients and mix well. Pour into the prepared pan and bake for about 2 hours in the preheated oven. If it starts to brown too quickly on top, cover it with foil or wax paper after about 1 hour. The cake is cooked when a skewer inserted into the center comes out clean. Allow it to sit in the pan for about 20 minutes before turning out and cooling on a wire rack.

 inchTop Tier inch Devil's Food Cake with Sour Cream-Fudge Frosting 
1/4 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder
1 ounce high-quality milk chocolate (such as Lindt, Perugina, or Valrhona), chopped
1/4 cup boiling water
1/4 cup buttermilk
2/3 cup cake flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup canola oil
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
8 ounces high-quality milk chocolate (such as Lindt, Perugina, or Valrhona), chopped
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup sour cream
4 teaspoons light corn syrup
Organic roses (for garnish)
2 5-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides

Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter two 5-inch cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper; butter parchment. Combine cocoa powder and milk chocolate in medium bowl. Pour 1/4 cup boiling water over; whisk until mixture is smooth. Whisk in buttermilk.
Whisk flour, baking soda, and salt in another medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat both sugars, oil, egg, and vanilla in large bowl until well blended. Add flour and cocoa mixtures; beat until blended (batter will be thin). Divide batter between pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out with some crumbs attached, 28 to 30 minutes. Cool in pans on racks 15 minutes. Turn out onto racks; peel off parchment. Turn over; cool on racks.
Place chocolate in large metal bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water and stir until melted and smooth. Remove bowl from over water. Add butter and stir until melted, then add sour cream and corn syrup and whisk until smooth. Let frosting stand at room temperature until thick enough to spread, about 20 minutes.
Using serrated knife, trim top of cakes to make level. Cut each cake horizontally in half. Place 1 cake layer, cut side up, on platter. Spread 1/4 cup frosting over, leaving 1/2-inch border. Top with second cake layer, cut side down. Spread 1/4 cup frosting over, leaving 1/2-inch border. Top with third cake layer, cut side up. Spread 1/4 cup frosting over, leaving 1/2-inch border. Top with remaining cake layer, cut side down. Spread 1/3 cup frosting over top and sides. Chill until frosting is set, about 30 minutes. Keep remaining frosting at room temperature.
Spread remaining frosting evenly over top and sides of cake. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome and store at room temperature.
Arrange roses atop cake and serve.

Blood Orange Polenta Upside Down-Cake with Whipped Crème Fraîche 
7 tablespoons sugar, divided, plus 3/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons water
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature, divided
3 unpeeled small to medium blood oranges
3/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons unbleached all purpose flour
3 tablespoons polenta or coarse yellow cornmeal (preferably stone-ground)
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 large eggs, separated
6 tablespoons whole milk
1 cup chilled crème fraîche*
2 tablespoons sugar
Ovenproof 10-inch-diameter skillet with 2 1/2-inch-high sides

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Combine 6 tablespoons sugar and 3 tablespoons water in 10-inch-diameter ovenproof skillet with 8-inch-diameter bottom and 2 1/2-inch-high sides.Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and boil without stirring until syrup is golden amber (not dark amber), occasionally brushing down sides of skillet with wet pastry brush and swirling skillet, about 4 minutes. Remove skillet from heat and whisk 2 tablespoons butter into caramel. Set aside.
Cut off both rounded ends of each orange so that ends are even and flat. Using sharp knife, cut oranges into 1/16- to 1/8-inch-thick rounds. Remove and discard any seeds. Arrange orange slices, overlapping slightly, in concentric circles atop caramel in bottom of skillet.
Whisk flour, polenta, baking powder, and coarse kosher salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat 3/4 cup sugar, remaining 6 tablespoons room-temperature butter, and vanilla in another medium bowl until light and fluffy. Add egg yolks 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with milk in 2 additions, beating batter just until incorporated.
Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in large bowl until soft peaks form. Add remaining 1 tablespoon sugar and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold 1/3 of egg whites into batter to lighten, then fold in remaining egg whites in 2 additions. Drop batter by large spoonfuls atop orange slices in skillet, then spread evenly.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool cake in skillet 10 minutes. Run small knife around cake to loosen. Place platter atop skillet. Using oven mitts, hold platter and skillet firmly together and invert, allowing cake to settle onto platter. Rearrange any orange slices that may have become dislodged. Cool cake completely at room temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat chilled crème fraîche and 2 tablespoons sugar in medium bowl until mixture thickens.
Cut cake into wedges and serve with dollop of whipped crème fraîche.
Available at most supermarkets and at specialty foods stores.

Chocolate Chipotle Shortbread 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon chipotle chile powder
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup superfine granulated sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle.
Whisk together flour, cocoa powder, chile powder, cinnamon, and salt in a bowl.
Beat together butter and sugar with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale and fluffy. At low speed, mix in flour mixture until well blended. Divide dough in half and pat out into 2 (7-inch) rounds (1/4 inch thick). Arrange rounds 2 inches apart on an ungreased baking sheet. Cut each round into 8 wedges (do not separate wedges). Prick all over with a fork.
Bake until dry to the touch, 16 to 18 minutes. Recut shortbread while hot, then cool on sheet (shortbread will crisp as it cools).

Maple Cheesecake with Maple-Cranberry Compote 
1 1/2 cups pure maple syrup (preferably grade A dark amber)
2 cups ground graham crackers (about 17 whole crackers ground in processor)
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon (scant) ground cinnamon
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup maple sugar or (packed) golden brown sugar
3 tablespoons all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup reduced maple syrup (see above)
2/3 cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
4 large eggs
Maple-Cranberry Compote
Heavy-duty stand mixer
9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides

Boil maple syrup in heavy medium saucepan over medium-high heat until reduced to 1 cup, stirring occasionally and watching closely to avoid boiling over (syrup will bubble up to top of pan), about 5 minutes. Remove reduced maple syrup from heat and let cool to slightly warm or room temperature.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Mix graham cracker crumbs, sugar, and cinnamon in medium bowl. Add melted butter and stir until crumbs are evenly moistened. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and 2 inches up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Bake crust until set and top edge of crust darkens slightly, about 10 minutes. Cool crust completely on rack. Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F.
Beat cream cheese in large bowl of heavy-duty mixer fitted with paddle attachment until very smooth. Add maple sugar, flour, and salt; beat until well blended and smooth. Add 1 cup reduced maple syrup, sour cream, and vanilla; beat until well blended. Add eggs, 2 at a time, and beat just until blended after each addition. Tap bowl several times on counter to release any air bubbles. Pour filling into cooled crust. Using tip of small knife, pop any air bubbles on surface.
Bake cake until slightly puffed around edges (center will still look moist and will move slightly when pan is gently shaken), about 1 hour 30 minutes. Transfer cake to rack and cool completely. Cover and chill overnight. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Keep chilled.
Cut cheesecake into wedges. Divide among plates. Serve with warm Maple- Cranberry Compote alongside.

Chocolate Mayonnaise Cake 
2 ounces bittersweet chocolate (do not exceed 61% cacao), chopped
2/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 3/4 cups boiling water
2 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1 cup sugar
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1 1/3 cups mayonnaise (do not use reduced-fat or fat-free)
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
10 ounces bittersweet chocolate (do not exceed 61% cacao), chopped
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 cups powdered sugar
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Three 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour three 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Combine chopped chocolate and cocoa powder in medium metal bowl. Add 1 3/4 cups boiling water and whisk until chocolate is melted and mixture is smooth.
Sift flour, baking soda, and baking powder into another medium bowl.Using electric mixer, beat both sugars and mayonnaise in large bowl until well blended, 2 to 3 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until well blended after each addition. Beat in vanilla. Add flour mixture in 4 additions alternately with chocolate mixture in 3 additions, beating until blended after each addition and occasionally scraping down sides of bowl. Divide batter among prepared cake pans (about 2 1/3 cups for each).
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, 30 to 32 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 20 minutes. Run small knife around sides of cakes to loosen. Carefully invert cakes onto racks and let cool completely.
Place chopped chocolate in medium metal bowl; set bowl over saucepan of simmering water and stir until chocolate is melted and smooth. Carefully remove bowl from over water; let melted chocolate cool until lukewarm, stirring occasionally.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth and creamy. Sift powdered sugar over butter and beat until well blended, about 2 minutes. Beat in vanilla. Add melted chocolate and beat until well blended and smooth, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over top of cake layer to edges. Top with second cake layer; spread 3/4 cup frosting over. Top with third cake layer. Spread remaining frosting decoratively over top and sides of cake. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and let stand at room temperature.
Cut cake into wedges and serve.

Maple Cake with Maple Syrup Frosting 
3 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons non-hydrogenated solid vegetable shortening, room temperature
2 cups pure maple syrup (preferably Grade B)
3 large egg yolks
1 large egg
1 1/4 cups whole milk
1 cup walnuts, toasted, coarsely chopped
3 cups powdered sugar
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons pure maple syrup (preferably Grade B)
Toasted walnut halves (for garnish)
Two 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Butter two 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper; butter parchment. Dust pans with flour; tap out excess. Sift 3 cups flour, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and shortening in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add maple syrup and beat until smooth, about 3 minutes. Add egg yolks and egg 1 at a time, beating until well blended after each addition. Beat in flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with milk in 2 additions. Fold in walnuts. Divide batter equally between prepared pans (about 3 1/2 cups for each); smooth tops.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, 50 to 55 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 20 minutes. Run small knife around sides of cakes to loosen. Invert cakes onto racks; remove parchment. Cool cakes completely.
Sift powdered sugar into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until smooth. Add powdered sugar and maple syrup and beat just until smooth (do not overbeat or frosting may become too soft).
Using serrated knife, trim off domed top of each cake layer, creating flat surface. Place 1 cake layer, trimmed side up, on platter. Spoon 1 cup frosting in dollops over top of cake layer; spread evenly to edges. Top with second cake layer, trimmed side down. Spread remaining frosting evenly over top and sides of cake. Arrange walnut halves around top edge of cake. DO AHEAD: Can be made up to 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and chill. Bring to room temperature before serving.
Cut cake into wedges and serve.

Almond-Macaroon Torte with Chocolate Frosting and Orange Compote 
1 cup sugar
1 cup water
Peel of 1 large orange, removed in strips with vegetable peeler
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 1/2 cups slivered almonds
1 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar
2 large pinches of coarse kosher salt
2 vanilla beans, split lengthwise
6 large egg whites
20 ounces bittersweet chocolate (do not exceed 61% cacao), chopped
1 cup sliced almonds, toasted
2 large oranges, all peel and white pith cut off

Combine sugar, 1 cup water, and orange peel strips in medium saucepan. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves and syrup comes to boil. Reduce heat to medium-low and simmer 1 minute. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and chill syrup with peel strips.
Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Draw two 12 x 4-inch rectangles, spacing 2 inches apart, on each of 2 sheets of parchment paper (4 rectangles total). Turn over each parchment sheet onto large rimmed baking sheet (rectangles will show through). Spray parchment with nonstick spray.
Place slivered almonds, 1 cup sugar, and coarse salt in processor. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean halves. Blend until nuts are finely ground. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites in large bowl until soft peaks form. Add remaining 3 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold nut mixture into egg whites. Spread 1/4 of macaroon batter evenly within each rectangle, filling completely.
Bake macaroon layers until golden and almost firm to touch in center, reversing sheets after 20 minutes, 35 to 40 minutes total. Cool on sheets.
Place 10 tablespoons orange syrup in large saucepan and bring to simmer over medium-low heat (reserve remaining syrup). Add chocolate to saucepan and stir until chocolate is melted and smooth. Remove from heat. Cool until frosting begins to thicken, stirring often, 20 to 30 minutes.
Place 1 macaroon layer on long platter. Spread 1/2 cup frosting evenly over. Top with another macaroon layer. Spread 1/2 cup frosting evenly over. Repeat 1 more time. Top with last macaroon layer, flat side up. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of torte. Press sliced almonds onto sides of torte. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with foil tent; store at room temperature. Cover remaining syrup; chill.
Thinly slice whole oranges crosswise into rounds. Cut slices into quarters and place in remaining reserved syrup for compote. Slice torte; place on plates. Spoon orange compote alongside.

Dr. Lee's Mocha Meringue 
1 cup powdered sugar
1 tbsp of cocoa
1/8 tsp cinnamon
1/2 tsp instant coffee powder
4 egg whites
1/2 tsp vanilla
1/2 cup slivered almonds
1/4 tsp salt

Preheat oven to 250 degrees. Lightly grease a cookie sheet. Sift powdered sugar, cocoa, coffee and salt. Put dry mix and almonds in blender—grind until it becomes a fine powder. Beat the egg whites and vanilla extract until stiff. Fold the powdered mix with the stiff egg whites. Drop meringue mix with a tablespoon onto cookie sheet. Bake for 2 to 3 hours, turn off the oven, leave meringues in oven for 20 minutes, then serve.
Adapted from The Moosewood Cookbook by Mollie Katzen.

Chocolate Cake with Chocolate-Orange Frosting 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 cup all purpose flour
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup whole wheat pastry flour*
6 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup water
1/3 cup vegetable oil
1/4 cup frozen orange juice concentrate, thawed
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon distilled white vinegar
8 ounces bittersweet chocolate (donot exceed 61% cacao), chopped
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) vegan  inchbutter inch (such as Earth Balance) or margarine, room temperature
1 cup powdered sugar
3 tablespoons frozen orange juice concentrate, thawed, divided
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Large pinch of salt
1/4 cup light agave nectar**

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 9-inch diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Sift all purpose flour, sugar, whole wheat flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt into large bowl. Add 3/4 cup water, oil, juice concentrate, vanilla, and vinegar and whisk to blend. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack. Carefully cut around pan sides and turn out cake onto serving platter.
Place chopped bittersweet chocolate in medium metal bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of barely simmering water. Stir constantly until chocolate is melted and smooth. Carefully transfer bowl to work surface. Cool melted chocolate to room temperature, stirring occasionally, 15 to 20 minutes.
Using electric mixer, beat  inchbutter inch in large bowl until smooth. Add powdered sugar, 1 tablespoon juice concentrate, vanilla, and salt; beat until smooth. Add 2 tablespoons juice concentrate; beat until blended. Beat in agave nectar, then chocolate. Let stand 10 minutes. Frost top and sides of cake. DO AHEAD: Cake can be made up to 8 hours ahead. Cover with cake dome and store at room temperature.
Also called whole grain pastry flour; available at some supermarkets and at most natural foods stores.
** A natural sweetener made from the sap of agave succulent plants; sold at some supermarkets and at natural foods stores.

Coconut Cake with Chocolate Chunks and Coconut Drizzle 
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon fine sea salt
1 cup unsweetened shredded coconut*
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 teaspoons (packed) finely grated orange peel
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup canned unsweetened coconut milk**
6 ounces bittersweet chocolate bars (do not exceed 61% cacao), broken into 1/2-inch irregular pieces, divided
1/2 cup sweetened flaked coconut
3/4 cup powdered sugar
2 tablespoons (or more) canned unsweetened coconut milk**
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides; dust pan with flour, shaking out excess. Sift 1 3/4 cups flour, baking powder, and sea salt into medium bowl. Stir in unsweetened shredded coconut and set aside. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, butter, and orange peel in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla. Add flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with coconut milk in 2 additions, beating just until blended after each addition. Fold in half of bittersweet chocolate pieces. Spread batter evenly in prepared cake pan. Sprinkle remaining chocolate pieces over batter, then sprinkle with sweetened flaked coconut.
Bake cake until golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, tenting with sheet of foil if coconut atop cake is browning too quickly, 60 to 70 minutes. Transfer cake to rack and cool in pan 45 minutes.
Whisk powdered sugar, 2 tablespoons unsweetened coconut milk, and vanilla in small bowl to blend well, adding more coconut milk by 1/2 teaspoonfuls until mixture is thin enough to drizzle over cake.
Carefully run small knife around sides of cake to loosen. Invert cake onto platter, then carefully invert again onto another platter, coconut side up. Using small spoon, drizzle powdered sugar mixture decoratively over cake. Cool cake completely on platter. DO AHEAD Cake can be made up to 1 day ahead. Cover cake and let stand at room temperature.
Cut cake into wedges and serve with vanilla ice cream.
Available at specialty foods stores and natural foods stores.
** Sold at many supermarkets and at Indian, Southeast Asian, and Latin markets. If unavailable, use 1 cup half and half mixed with 1/2 teaspoon imitation coconut extract.

Pumpkin Pie Cupcakes 
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon ground ginger
1/8 teaspoon nutmeg
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons butter, softened
1 egg white
1/4 cup canned pumpkin puree
2 tablespoons skim milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract, divided
8 mini muffin liners
2 tablespoons lowfat cream cheese, at room temperature
2 teaspoon trans-fat-free margarine
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
2 tablespoons nonfat plain yogurt
Grated zest of 1 lemon

Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Mix flour, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg and salt until combined. Set aside. Mash granulated sugar and butter in another bowl until combined. Stir in egg white, then pumpkin, milk and 1/2 teaspoon vanilla. Add dry ingredients; stir until just combined. Pour batter into lined mini muffin cups to three quarters full. Bake until cupcakes spring back to the touch, 10 to 15 minutes. Beat cream cheese, margarine and confectioners' sugar in a bowl with a hand mixer until smooth. Add yogurt and remaining 1/2 teaspoon vanilla; beat until combined. When cupcakes cool, frost and garnish with zest.

Lime Angel Food Cake with Lime Glaze and Pistachios 
1 cup cake flour
1 1/2 cups superfine sugar, divided
1/4 teaspoon salt
10 large egg whites, room temperature
2 teaspoons finely grated lime peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/2 cup sugar
4 tablespoons fresh lime juice, divided
1/2 cup unsalted raw pistachios (about 2 ounces), finely chopped in processor
1/2 cup powdered sugar
10-inch-diameter angel food cake pan with 4-inch-high sides and removable bottom (do not use nonstick pan)

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Sift flour, 1/2 cup superfine sugar, and salt into medium bowl; repeat sifting 3 times. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites, lime peel, and vanilla on medium speed in large bowl until frothy (mixture may turn neon green but color will change when remaining ingredients are added). Add cream of tartar; increase speed to high and beat until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons at a time, beating until stiff peaks form. Sprinkle 1/3 of flour mixture over whites and gently fold in until incorporated. Fold in remaining flour mixture in 2 more additions just until incorporated. Transfer to ungreased 10-inch angel food cake pan with 4-inch-high sides and removable bottom (do not use nonstick pan); smooth top.
Bake cake until pale golden and tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 38 minutes. Immediately invert cake onto work surface if pan has feet, or invert center tube of pan onto neck of bottle or metal funnel and cool cake completely.
Using long thin knife, cut around cake sides and center tube to loosen. Lift out center tube with cake still attached; run knife between cake and bottom of pan to loosen. Invert cake onto rack, then turn cake over, rounded side up. Set rack with cake atop rimmed baking sheet.
Combine sugar and 3 tablespoons lime juice in small saucepan; stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Brush syrup all over top and sides of cake. Immediately press pistachios onto top and sides of cake, pressing to adhere.
Stir powdered sugar with remaining 1 tablespoon lime juice in small bowl until smooth. Drizzle glaze over top of cake. Let stand until glaze sets, about 10 minutes. DO AHEAD: Cake can be made up to 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and store at room temperature.
Transfer cake to platter; cut into wedges and serve.

Glazed Chocolate Cake with Sprinkles 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/3 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
1 cup packed light brown sugar
2 large eggs at room temperature 30 minutes
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 cup whole milk
1/4 cup heavy cream
3 1/2 oz bittersweet chocolate (not more than 60% cacao if marked), finely chopped
2 teaspoons light corn syrup
Colorful confectionary sprinkles and/or nonpareils
a 9- by 2-inch round cake pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter bottom and side of pan, then line bottom with a round of parchment.
Sift together flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder, and salt into a bowl.
Beat together butter and brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until light and fluffy, 3 to 5 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in vanilla. Reduce speed to medium-low and add flour mixture and milk alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture (batter will appear curdled).
Transfer batter to cake pan and smooth top. Bake until cake begins to pull away from side of pan and a wooden pick inserted into center comes out clean, 35 to 40 minutes. Cool cake in pan 5 minutes, then invert onto a rack and cool completely, about 1 hour.
Bring cream to a simmer in a small heavy saucepan over medium heat, then pour over chocolate in a bowl and let stand 1 minute. Gently whisk until smooth, then stir in corn syrup. Cool completely, gently stirring occasionally, about 30 minutes (glaze will thicken).
Carefully peel off parchment from cake. Pour glaze onto center of cake and spread to edges with a spatula. Decorate with sprinkles and/or nonpareils.

Banana Upside-Down Cake 
3/4 stick unsalted butter
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
2 tablespoons dark rum
3 large just-ripe bananas, halved lengthwise and cut into 1 1/2-inch pieces
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 stick unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 tablespoon dark rum
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
3/4 cup whole milk
a well-seasoned 10-inch cast-iron skillet

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle.
Melt butter in skillet over medium heat, then stir in brown sugar, rum, and a pinch of salt and simmer, stirring, 4 minutes. Remove from heat and arrange bananas on top of sugar mixture in concentric circles, fitting in as many pieces as possible.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, cinnamon, nutmeg, and salt. Beat together butter and sugar with an electric mixer at high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in rum and vanilla. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture in 3 batches, alternating with milk, beginning and ending with flour, mixing until just incorporated.
Spoon batter over bananas, smoothing top, and bake until top is golden and a wooden pick inserted into center comes out clean, 40 to 45 minutes.
Let cake stand in skillet 5 minutes. Invert a plate over skillet and invert cake onto plate (keeping plate and skillet firmly pressed together). Replace any banana stuck to bottom of skillet.
Serve cake slightly warm or at room temperature.

Buttermilk Spice Cake with Pear Compote and Crème Fraîche 
2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon fresh lime juice
Large pinch of salt
3 Bosc pears (about 1 1/2 pounds total), peeled, quartered, cored, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon all purpose flour
1/4 cup cornstarch
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon (scant) baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 teaspoon ground allspice
1/8 teaspoon ground ginger
1/8 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/8 teaspoon ground whole star anise*
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 3-inch piece vanilla bean, split lengthwise
1/4 teaspoon finely grated lime peel
3/4 cup buttermilk
Powdered sugar
1 1/2 cups crème fraîche**

Mix sugar, lime juice, and salt in heavy large saucepan. Add pears and toss gently to coat. Cover and cook over medium-low heat until pears are just tender, stirring occasionally, 10 to 12 minutes. Transfer mixture to bowl. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Chill until cold, then cover and keep chilled.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides; line pan with round of parchment paper. Sift first 9 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add sugar, beating until smooth. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, beating to blend between additions. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean and add lime peel; beat to blend. Beat in flour mixture in 4 additions alternately with buttermilk in 3 additions, scraping down bowl occasionally. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until beginning to brown on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cake in pan on cooling rack. DO AHEAD: Cake can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.
Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto rack; peel off parchment and turn right side up onto platter. Sift powdered sugar over. Cut into wedges. Serve with pear compote and dollop of crème fraîche.
A brown, star-shaped seedpod that's available in the spice section of some supermarkets and at specialty foods stores and Asian markets.
** Available at most supermarkets and at specialty foods stores.

Buttermilk Pudding Cake with Maple Raspberries 
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/3 cups well-shaken buttermilk
1/2 stick butter, melted and cooled
3 large eggs, separated
2/3 cup sugar, divided
2 half-pints raspberries (1/2 pound)
1/3 cup pure maple syrup

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter a 1 1/2-quart shallow baking dish.
Whisk together flour and salt in a large bowl. Whisk together buttermilk, butter, yolks, and 1/3 cup sugar in a separate bowl, then stir into flour mixture.
Beat egg whites with an electric mixer at medium speed until frothy. Increase speed to medium-high and add remaining 1/3 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating until whites just hold stiff peaks.
Stir about one third of whites into batter to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Pour batter into baking dish and bake in a water bath until puffed and golden-brown, 40 to 50 minutes. Cool slightly, 10 to 15 minutes.
Toss raspberries with maple syrup and serve with warm pudding cake.

Banana Cupcakes with Peanut Butter Frosting 
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 very ripe large bananas, peeled
1/2 cup sour cream
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 large egg
1 large egg yolk
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup smooth peanut butter (do not use old-fashioned or freshly ground)
Chopped lightly salted roasted peanuts (optional)

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 12 standard (1/3-cup) muffin cups with paper liners. Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Mash bananas with fork in another medium bowl until smooth. Mix sour cream and vanilla into bananas.
Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add egg and egg yolk and beat until well blended. Add flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with banana-sour cream mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating just until blended after each addition. Divide batter among prepared muffin cups (generous 1/4 cup for each).
Bake cupcakes until tester inserted into center of each comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Transfer cupcakes to rack and let cool completely.
Sift powdered sugar into large bowl. Add cream cheese, butter, and peanut butter. Using electric mixer, beat mixture until smooth. Spread frosting over top of cupcakes, dividing equally. Sprinkle lightly with chopped peanuts, if desired. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Lemon Cranberry Florentines 
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 6 pieces
2/3 cup sugar
1/3 cup heavy whipping cream
3 tablespoons honey
1 1/4 cups slivered almonds, finely chopped
1 cup finely chopped Candied Lemon Peel , divided
1/2 cup dried cranberries, finely chopped
1/3 cup all purpose flour
9 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped

Place butter, sugar, whipping cream, and honey in medium saucepan. Attach candy thermometer to side of pan. Bring mixture to boil over medium-high heat, stirring to dissolve sugar. Reduce heat to low and boil without stirring until candy thermometer registers 230 degrees F, about 4 minutes. Remove pan from heat. Immediately add chopped almonds, 1/2 cup Candied Lemon Peel, cranberries, and flour; stir until evenly distributed. Cool to room temperature (dough will thicken as it cools).
Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Spoon generous rounded teaspoonfuls dough (about 1-inchdiameter rounds) onto prepared baking sheets, spacing about 4 inches apart. Bake until cookies spread out, bubble, and are golden brown, rotating baking sheets halfway during baking, about 16 minutes total. Place baking sheets on rack. If cookies are misshapen, use butter knife to push irregular edges in, forming round cookies. Slide parchment paper with cookies onto racks; cool completely. Let baking sheets cool completely, then repeat process with remaining dough, lining baking sheets with fresh parchment paper between batches.
Stir finely chopped chocolate in metal bowl set over saucepan of simmering water until melted and smooth. Using fork, drizzle melted chocolate over cookies. Decorate with remaining 1/2 cup finely chopped Candied Lemon Peel. Chill to set chocolate, about 20 minutes. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 week ahead. Store layered between sheets of parchment paper in airtight containers in refrigerator.

Peppermint Meringue Cake with Chocolate Buttercream 
1 cup powdered sugar
1/3 cup superfine sugar
Pinch of salt
3 large egg whites, room temperature
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon peppermint extract
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon peppermint schnapps
1/2 cup all purpose flour
1/4 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
Pinch of salt
2 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extracts
1 3/4 cups heavy whipping cream
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into 8 pieces
3 tablespoons light corn syrup
1 1/2 pounds bittersweet chocolate (do not exceed 61% cacao), chopped
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Pinch of salt
Thin chocolate-covered mint wafers, cut into small triangles (for garnish)
Fresh raspberries (for garnish)
Fresh mint leaves (for garnish)
Heavy-duty stand mixer
13 x 9 x 1-inch baking sheet
Small offset spatula
Pastry bag
Medium star tip (for decorating)

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 175 degrees F. Using pencil, trace two 12 x 4-inch rectangles on sheet of parchment paper; turn parchment over (rectangles will show through) and place on large rimmed baking sheet. Trace one 12 x 4-inch rectangle on second sheet of parchment paper; turn parchment over and place on second rimmed baking sheet.
Sift powdered sugar, superfine sugar, and salt into medium bowl. Combine egg whites and cream of tartar in large bowl of heavy-duty stand mixer fitted with wire whisk; beat on medium-low speed until frothy. Increase speed to medium-high and beat until soft peaks form. Increase speed to high; gradually add sugar mixture and beat until stiff and glossy peaks form, about 3 minutes. Beat in vanilla and peppermint extracts. Divide meringue equally among prepared rectangles on parchment (about 1 1/3 cups for each); spread meringue evenly within traced lines.
Bake meringues until dry and crisp but not browned, about 3 hours. Turn off oven and let meringues cool completely in oven.
Carefully remove meringue rectangles from parchment. DO AHEAD: Meringues can be made 1 week ahead. Store in single layer in airtight container at room temperature.
Combine 1/2 cup water and sugar in small saucepan. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves and mixture comes to boil. Remove from heat; stir in peppermint schnapps. Transfer to bowl; cover and chill until cold. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Keep chilled.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter bottom and sides of 13 x 9 x 1-inch baking sheet. Line bottom of baking sheet with parchment paper. Lightly dust sheet sides with flour. Sift 1/2 cup flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat eggs and egg yolks in another medium bowl until pale and foamy, about 2 minutes. Add sugar and vanilla; beat until mixture is thick and ribbon forms when beaters are lifted, about 3 minutes. Sift flour mixture over egg mixture and gently fold in with rubber spatula just until incorporated.
Transfer batter to baking sheet; spread evenly to edges. Bake until top springs back when gently touched and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Transfer baking sheet to rack and cool cake 20 minutes. Run small knife around sides of cake to loosen. Invert cake onto parchment-lined work surface; gently peel off parchment. Cool completely. Using serrated knife, cut cake in half lengthwise, then trim each half to 12 x 4-inch rectangle.
Simmer cream, butter, and corn syrup in medium saucepan.Remove from heat. Add chocolate; whisk until smooth. Whisk in vanilla and salt. Let stand at room temperature until thick enough to spread, 1 hour to 1 1/2 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 4 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature.
Transfer 1/2 cup buttercream to pastry bag fitted with medium star tip; reserve for piping rosettes. Brush off any crumbs from meringue layers and cake layers. Place several small dabs of buttercream down center of 15-inch-long rectangular serving platter. Place 1 meringue layer, top side up, atop buttercream on platter, anchoring to platter. Place strips of foil around meringue layer to protect platter when spreading meringue with buttercream. Using small offset spatula, spread 2/3 cup buttercream over meringue. Top with 1 cake layer, top side down, pressing gently to adhere. Brush cake layer with 1/3 cup peppermint syrup (cake layer will be very moist). Spread 2/3 cup buttercream over, then top with second meringue layer, top side up. Spread 2/3 cup buttercream over. Cover with second cake layer, top side down. Brush with 1/3 cup peppermint syrup (cake layer will be very moist). Spread with 2/3 cup buttercream. Top with third meringue layer, top side up. Spread thin layer of buttercream over top and sides of cake. Chill 15 minutes.
Spread remaining buttercream over top and sides of cake. Pipe small rosettes of buttercream in 2 rows atop center of cake. Stand 1 or 2 mint wafer triangles in each rosette. Chill cake at least 6 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover loosely; chill. Let cake stand at room temperature 1 1/2 hours before serving.
Garnish top of cake with fresh raspberries and mint leaves and serve.

Pear Cranberry Cake 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 teaspoon grated nutmeg
1 3/4 cups sugar
1 1/4 cups vegetable oil
4 large eggs
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
3 Bosc pears (1 1/2 pounds), cut into 3/4-inch pieces
1 cup cranberries (thawed if frozen)
1 cup heavy cream
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 (3-inch-long) cinnamon sticks
Equipment: a 10-by 4-inch angel food cake pan or a 15- cup Bundt pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter cake pan.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, salt, and spices.
Beat together sugar, oil, eggs, and vanilla with an electric mixer until combined well.
At low speed, mix in pears and cranberries, then mix in flour mixture until incorporated.
Spoon batter into pan.
Bake until a wooden pick inserted into center of cake comes out clean, 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 hours.
Cool in pan 30 minutes, then turn out onto a rack and cool completely.
Bring cream, brown sugar, corn syrup, vanilla, cinnamon sticks, and a pinch of salt to a boil in a small heavy saucepan, stirring occasionally, then simmer until slightly thickened, about 10 minutes.
Cool glaze 5 minutes. Discard cinnamon sticks, then pour glaze over cake, letting some drip down sides.

Spice Cake with Caramelized Pears and Maple Buttercream 
2 2/3 cups all-purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1 cup whole milk
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
2/3 cup granulated sugar
2/3 cup packed dark brown sugar
5 large eggs
2 1/4 pounds Bartlett or Bosc pears (about 5)
1/2 stick unsalted butter
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
2 tablespoons brandy
4 large egg whites at room temperature 30 minutes
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup maple sugar
1 1/3 cups pure maple syrup (preferably Grade A dark amber)
4 sticks (1 pound) unsalted butter, cut into tablespoons and softened
Equipment: 3 (8-inch) round cake pans (2 inches deep; see cooks' note, below); a candy thermometer

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter and flour cake pans.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, salt, and spices in a large bowl. Stir together milk and vanilla in a small bowl.
Beat butter and sugars with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, 3 to 5 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. At low speed, mix in flour mixture in 3 batches, alternating with milk mixture (begin and end with flour mixture) and mixing until just combined.
Divide batter among pans, smoothing tops, then rap pans once or twice on counter to eliminate any air bubbles. Bake until pale golden and a wooden pick inserted into center of cakes comes out clean, 25 to 30 minutes. Cool in pans on racks 10 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge of pans, then invert cakes onto racks. Reinvert and cool completely.
Peel and core pears, then coarsely chop.
Heat butter in a 12-inch heavy skillet over medium-high heat until foam subsides, then sauté pears, stirring occasionally, until just beginning to brown, 2 to 3 minutes. Stir in sugar, lemon juice, and brandy and cook over high heat, stirring, until juices are deep golden and pears are tender, about 5 minutes.
Beat egg whites with cream of tartar and salt using cleaned beaters at medium speed until they just hold soft peaks. Add maple sugar a little at a time, beating, then continue to beat until whites just hold stiff peaks.
Boil maple syrup in a small heavy saucepan over medium heat, undisturbed, until it reaches soft-ball stage (238 to 242 degrees F on candy thermometer), 3 to 7 minutes.
With mixer at low speed, immediately pour hot syrup in a slow stream down side of bowl into egg whites, then beat at high speed, scraping down side of bowl occasionally with a rubber spatula, until meringue is cool to the touch, about 6 minutes. (It's important that meringue be fully cooled before proceeding.)
At medium speed, add butter 1 tablespoon at a time, beating well after each addition. (If buttercream looks soupy after some butter is added, meringue is too warm: Chill bottom of bowl in an ice bath for a few seconds before continuing to beat in remaining butter.) Continue beating until buttercream is smooth. (Mixture may look curdled before all butter is added but will come together before beating is finished.)
Put 1 cake layer on a serving plate, then spread with 3/4 cup buttercream and top with half of pear filling. Top with second cake layer, 3/4 cup buttercream, and remaining pear filling. Top with remaining cake layer, then frost top and sides of cake with remaining buttercream.

Brown Sugar-Pecan Cupcakes with Caramel Frosting 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 cup all purpose flour
1/2 cup cake flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
1 1/4 cups coarsely chopped toasted pecans
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 large eggs, room temperature
1/3 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup water
1/2 cup heavy whipping cream
2 large egg yolks
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/8 teaspoon fine sea salt
1 cup powdered sugar, sifted
1 cup coarsely chopped toasted pecans
12 paper muffin cup liners

Put rack in bottom third of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Spray 12-cup muffin pan with nonstick spray; line with muffin cups.
Whisk both flours, baking powder, baking soda, and sea salt in medium bowl. Stir in chopped pecans. Beat butter in large bowl until smooth. Add brown sugar; beat until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating to blend between additions. Beat in sour cream and vanilla. Add dry ingredients; beat on low speed just to blend. Divide batter among muffin cups.
Bake cupcakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 23 minutes. Cool in pan on rack 15 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool. DO AHEAD: Can be made 8 hours ahead. Cover; store at room temperature.
Stir sugar and 1/4 cup water in medium saucepan over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to medium-high; boil until syrup turns deep amber, swirling pan and brushing down sides with wet pastry brush, 6 to 7 minutes. Remove from heat; add cream (mixture will bubble up). Stir over low heat until caramel bits dissolve. Whisk egg yolks in medium bowl. Very gradually whisk hot caramel into yolks. Cool to room temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat butter and salt in large bowl until smooth. Beat in caramel. Add powdered sugar and beat until smooth. Let stand at room temperature until thick enough to spread, about 1 hour.
Spread frosting over cupcakes. Place pecans on plate. Roll edges of cupcakes in nuts. DO AHEAD: Can be made 8 hours ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Amy Sedaris's Vanilla Cupcakes 
1 1/2 sticks unsalted butter
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 eggs
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 1/2 cups flour
1 1/4 cups milk
Amy Sedaris's Vanilla Buttercream Frostingepi:recipelink</epi:recipelink>

Turn oven on to 375 degrees F.
Put butter in mixer and beat at medium speed until somewhat smooth. Pour in sugar and beat well. Add 2 eggs. I like to crack the eggs on the side of the bowl while it is moving, which can be really stupid. I like to take chances. Yes, I have had to throw away my batter because I lost eggshells in the mix. Yes, it was a waste of food and yes, I know how expensive butter is, but what can I say? I'm a daredevil. Mix well. Add: vanilla, baking powder, salt, flour, and milk. Beat until it looks like it is supposed to and pour into individual baking cups, until they are about 2/3 full. Bake for 20 minutes or until golden brown. Should produce 24 cupcakes; I get 18 because I'm doing something wrong, although my cupcakes were voted second best in the city by New York Magazine.
Frost with Amy Sedaris's Vanilla Buttercream Frostingepi:recipelink.</epi:recipelink>

Chocolate Peppermint Bark Cookies 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 large egg yolk
6 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup finely chopped red-and-whitestriped hard peppermint candies or candy canes (about 3 ounces)
2 ounces high-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 13 x 9 x 2-inch metal baking pan with nonstick spray. Line bottom of pan with long strip of 9-inch-wide parchment paper, leaving overhang on both short sides of pan. Whisk flour and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until creamy, about 2 minutes. Gradually beat in sugar. Continue beating until mixture is light and fluffy, stopping occasionally to scrape down sides of bowl, about 3 minutes. Beat in vanilla, then egg yolk. Gradually add flour mixture, beating on low speed just to blend.
Drop dough by tablespoonfuls into prepared baking pan, spacing evenly. Using moistened fingertips, press dough to form even layer over bottom of pan. Pierce dough all over with fork.
Bake cookie base until light golden brown and slightly puffed and edges begin to come away from sides of pan, about 30 minutes. Place pan on rack; immediately sprinkle bittersweet chocolate over. Let stand until chocolate softens, about 3 minutes. Using small offset spatula, spread bittersweet chocolate over top of cookie in thin even layer. Immediately sprinkle chopped peppermint candies over.
Stir white chocolate in medium metal bowl set over saucepan of simmering water until melted and smooth. Remove from over water. Using fork, drizzle white chocolate all over cookies. Chill until white chocolate is set, about 30 minutes.
Using paper overhang as aid, lift cookie from pan and transfer to work surface. Using large knife, cut cookie into irregular pieces. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 week ahead. Store in refrigerator in airtight containers between layers of waxed paper or parchment paper.
For a variation on this cookie, sprinkle the melted dark chocolate with chopped peanut brittle or peanut butter cups instead of the peppermint candies.

Chocolate and Zucchini Cake 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter at room temperature, or 1/2 cup extra virgin olive oil, plus 1 pat butter or teaspoon olive oil for greasing
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
1 cup (packed) light brown sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 teaspoon instant coffee granules
3 large eggs
2 cups unpeeled grated zucchini, from about 1 1/2 medium zucchini (keep the remaining 1/2 zucchini for optional garnish)
1 cup good-quality bittersweet chocolate chips
Confectioners' sugar or melted bittersweet chocolate (optional)

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F and grease a 10-inch springform pan with butter or oil.
2. In a large mixing bowl, whisk together the flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. In a food processor, process the sugar and butter until creamy (you can also do this by hand, armed with a sturdy spatula). Add the vanilla, coffee granules, and eggs, mixing well between each addition.
3. Reserve a cup of the flour mixture and add the rest to the egg mixture. Mix until just combined; the batter will be thick.
4. Add the zucchini and chocolate chips to the reserved flour mixture and toss to coat. Fold into the batter and blend with a wooden spoon—don't overmix. Pour into the prepared cake pan and level the surface with a spatula.
5. Bake for 40 to 50 minutes, until a knife inserted in the center comes out clean.
Transfer to a rack to cool for 10 minutes, run a knife around the pan to loosen the cake, and unclasp the sides of the pan. Let cool to room temperature before serving.
Sprinkle with confectioners' sugar, glaze with melted chocolate, or decorate with a few slices of raw zucchini (you don't have to eat them, though).

Orange Upside-Down Cake 
1 large thin-skinned orange, such as Valencia
1/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons skim milk
1/3 cup sugar
1/2-ounce package active dry yeast
2 large eggs, separated, plus 2 additional large egg whites
2 tablespoons trans-free margarine
2 teaspoons finely grated orange zest
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
2/3 cup stone-ground yellow cornmeal

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
2. Wash the orange. Cut off and discard the ends. Cut the orange crosswise into slices about 1/4 inch thick. Remove any seeds. Put in the skillet, add 1/4 cup water,and sprinkle with sugar. Bring the mixture to a boil over high heat, gently stirring to keep the fruit from sticking. Cook until the liquid is almost gone and the orange slices are caramelized. With a fork, move the orange slices into an attractive pattern in the bottom of the skillet.
3. In a small saucepan, heat the milk until warm but not hot. Remove from heat and add 1 teaspoon of the sugar and the yeast. Stir until the yeast is dissolved.
Set aside.
4. In a large bowl, beat together the 2 egg yolks, the remaining sugar, and the margarine until pale yellow and thick. Add the orange zest and vanilla; mix well. Sift the cornmeal into the egg mixture, stirring constantly. Stir in the yeast mixture,which should now be frothy.
5. In a clean bowl, beat all 4 egg whites until they form stiff peaks. Stir a third of the beaten whites into the cornmeal mixture. Carefully fold in the remaining whites. Spoon the batter in dollops over the orange slices in the skillet. Smooth the top.
6. Bake for 25 to 30 minutes, until a cake tester inserted in the middle comes out clean. Run a knife between the sides of the skillet and the cake. Cool on a rack for 10 minutes. Hold a flat serving plate over the skillet and invert the cake. Serve while still warm.

Limoncello Tiramisù 
5 large eggs
5 or 6 lemons
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups limoncello liqueur
1 cup water
1 pound (2 cups) mascarpone, at room temperature
40 ladyfingers (preferably imported Italian savoiardi), or more as needed

Pour just enough water in the double-boiler pan so the water level is right below the bottom of the mixing bowl when it is sitting in the pan. Separate the eggs, putting yolks into the large bowl of the double boiler and the whites into another stainless-steel bowl for whipping by hand or with an electric mixer.
Remove the zest of two or more of the lemons, using a fine grater, to get 2 tablespoons of zest. Squeeze out and strain the juice of these and the other lemons to get 3/4 cup of fresh lemon juice.
To make the base for the tiramisù, heat the water in the double boiler to a steady simmer. Off the heat, beat the egg yolks with 1/4 cup of the sugar and ± cup of the limoncello until well blended.
Set the bowl over the simmering water, and whisk constantly, frequently scraping the whisk around the sides and bottom of the bowl, as the egg mixture expands and heats into a frothy sponge, 5 minutes or longer. When the sponge has thickened enough to form a ribbon when it drops on the surface, take the bowl off the double-boiler pan and let it cool.
Meanwhile, pour the remaining cup of limoncello, all of the lemon juice, 1 cup water, and 1/2 cup of the sugar in a saucepan.
Bring to a boil, stirring to dissolve the sugar, and cook for 5 minutes, evaporating the alcohol. Let the syrup cool completely.
In another large bowl, stir the mascarpone with a wooden spoon to soften it, then drop in the grated lemon zest and beat until light and creamy. Whip the egg whites with the remaining 1/4 cup sugar, by hand or by machine, until it holds moderately firm peaks. When the cooked limoncello sponge (or zabaglione) is cooled, scrape about a third of it over the mascarpone, and fold it in with a large rubber spatula. Fold in the rest of the zabaglione in two or three additions. Now fold in the whipped egg whites in several additions, until the limoncello-mascarpone cream is light and evenly blended.
Pour some of the cooled syrup, no deeper than 1/4 inch, into the shallow-rimmed pan to moisten the ladyfingers (savoiardi). One at a time, roll a ladyfinger in the syrup and place it in the casserole or baking dish. Wet each cookie briefly—if it soaks up too much syrup, it will fall apart. Arrange the moistened ladyfingers in neat, tight rows, filling the bottom of the pan completely. You should be able to fit about twenty ladyfingers in a single layer.
Scoop half of the limoncello-mascarpone cream onto the ladyfingers, and smooth it to fill the pan and cover them. Dip and arrange a second layer of ladyfingers in the pan, and cover it completely with the remainder of the cream. Smooth the cream with the spatula, and seal the tiramisù airtight in plastic wrap. Before serving, refrigerate for 6 hours (or up to 2 days), or put it in the freezer for 2 hours. To serve, cut portions of tiramisù in any size you like, and lift each out of the pan onto dessert plates.

Spiced Brown Butter and Walnut Tuille Cups 
7 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 large egg whites
1/2 cup sugar
Pinch of Chinese five-spice powder*
Pinch of salt
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
2/3 cup minus 1 tablespoon all purpose flour
1/4 cup (about) finely chopped walnuts
4 3/4-cup custard cups
Small offset spatula
Wide metal spatula

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper or nonstick silicone baking mats. Arrange four 3/4-cup custard cups upside down on work surface.
Stir butter in heavy small saucepan over medium heat until nutty brown and milk solids are dark brown, 6 to 7 minutes. Carefully pour browned butter into small bowl and cool slightly.
Combine egg whites, sugar, five-spice powder, and salt in medium bowl; whisk until mixture is foamy, about 1 minute. Add warm browned butter, leaving dark brown milk solids behind in bowl; whisk until blended. Whisk in vanilla. Add flour and whisk until blended and smooth.
Drop batter by scant tablespoonfuls onto prepared baking sheets, spacing 4 inches apart (about 4 per sheet). Using small offset spatula, spread each to 5-inch round (batter will be spread very thin). Sprinkle generous 1/4 teaspoon finely chopped walnuts over each.
Bake tuiles, 1 sheet at a time, until evenly golden all over, about 11 minutes. Working quickly and using wide metal spatula, carefully lift each tuile from sheet and immediately drape over custard cup and press to mold to cup, making cookie bowls. Cool until tuiles are set. Carefully remove tuiles from cups and place on rack to cool completely. Repeat procedure with batter and walnuts on cool baking sheets, making total of 12 cookie bowls (to allow for any breakage). For additional cookies, if desired, drop remaining batter onto baking sheets by teaspoonfuls, spacing 2 inches apart, and bake until evenly golden. Transfer to rack and cool. DO AHEAD: Cookie bowls and cookies can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
*A spice blend that usually contains ground fennel seeds, Szechuan peppercorns, cinnamon, star anise, and cloves; available in the spice section of most supermarkets.

Korova Cookies 
1 1/4 cups (175 grams) all-purpose flour
1/3 cup (30 grams) Dutch-processed cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 stick plus 3 tablespoons (5 1/2 ounces; 150 grams) unsalted butter, at room temperature
2/3 cup (120 grams) packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup (50 grams) sugar
1/2 teaspoon fleur de sel or 1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
5 ounces (150 grams) bittersweet chocolate, chopped into small bits

1. Sift the flour, cocoa, and baking soda together and keep close at hand. Put the butter in the bowl of a mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and beat on medium speed until the butter is soft and creamy. (Alternatively, you can do this and all subsequent steps by hand, working with a sturdy rubber spatula.) Add both sugars, the salt, and vanilla extract and beat for another minute or two. Reduce the mixer speed to low and add the sifted dry ingredients. Mix only until the dry ingredients are incorporated—the dough will look crumbly, and that's just right. For the best texture, you want to work the dough as little as possible once the flour is added. Toss in the chocolate pieces and mix only to incorporate.
2. Turn the dough out onto a smooth work surface and squeeze it so that it sticks together in large clumps. Gather the dough into a ball, divide it in half, and working with one half at a time, shape the dough into logs that are 1 1/2 inches (4 cm) in diameter. (Cookie-dough logs have a way of ending up with hollow centers, so as you're shaping each log, flatten it once or twice and roll it up from one long side to the other, just to make certain you haven't got an air channel.) Wrap the logs in plastic wrap and chill them for at least 2 hours. (Wrapped airtight, the logs can be refrigerated for up to 3 days or frozen for 1 month.)
3. Center a rack in the oven and preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C). Line two baking sheets with parchment paper and keep them close at hand.
4. Working with a sharp thin-bladed knife, slice the logs into rounds that are 1/2 inch (1.5 cm) thick. (Don't be upset if the rounds break; just squeeze the broken-off bit back onto the cookie.) Place the cookies on the parchment-lined sheets, leaving about 1 inch (2.5 cm) spread space between them.
5. Bake only one sheet of cookies at a time, and bake each sheet for 12 minutes. The cookies will not look done, nor will they be firm, but that's just the way they should be. Transfer the baking sheet to a cooling rack and let the cookies stand until they are only just warm or until they reach room temperature—it's your call. Repeat with the second sheet of cookies.

Cardamom-Orange Sugar Cookies 
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons finely grated orange peel
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 large egg, room temperature
Raw sugar

Whisk flour, cardamom, and 1/2 teaspoon salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until creamy, about 2 minutes. Gradually add 1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar; beat until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in finely grated orange peel and vanilla. Add egg; beat to blend. Add 1/3 of flour mixture; beat on low speed just to blend. Add remaining flour in 2 additions, beating on low speed just until blended. Refrigerate until firm enough to shape, about 1 hour.
Divide dough in half. Form each half into ball. Flatten into disks and wrap in plastic. Chill until firm enough to roll out, about 45 minutes. DO AHEAD: Dough can be prepared 1 day ahead. Keep refrigerated. Let chilled dough stand at room temperature until soft enough to roll out, about 15 minutes.
Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Roll out 1 dough disk on lightly floured surface to generous 1/8-inch thickness. Cut out cookies using festive cookie cutters. Carefully transfer cookies to prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Sprinkle with raw sugar. Gather dough scraps into ball. Flatten, cover, and freeze dough until firm enough to roll out again, about 10 minutes.
Bake cookies until light golden brown, about 16 minutes, rotating sheets halfway through baking for even cooking. Carefully slide parchment paper with cookies onto racks to cool completely. Let baking sheets cool completely, then repeat process with remaining dough, lining sheets with fresh parchment between batches. DO AHEAD: Cookies can be made 3 days ahead. Store cookies in airtight containers at room temperature.
Also called turbinado or demerara sugar; available at most supermarkets and at natural foods stores.

Triple-Ginger Cookies 
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/3 cup minced crystallized ginger
2 teaspoons baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1 large egg, room temperature
1/4 cup light (mild-flavored) molasses
1 1/2 teaspoons finely grated fresh peeled ginger
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/3 cup (about) sugar

Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Whisk flour, crystallized ginger, baking soda, and 1/4 teaspoon salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until creamy and light, about 2 minutes. Gradually beat in both brown sugars. Beat on medium-high speed until creamy, about 3 minutes. Add egg, molasses, fresh ginger, ground ginger, cinnamon, and cloves. Beat to blend. Add flour mixture in 2 additions, beating on low speed just to blend between additions.
Place 1/3 cup sugar in small bowl. Measure 1 tablespoon dough. Roll into ball between palms of hands, then roll in sugar in bowl to coat; place on baking sheet. Repeat with remaining cookie dough, spacing cookies 1 1/2 to 2 inches apart.
Bake cookies until surfaces crack and cookies are firm around edges but still slightly soft in center, about 15 minutes. Cool completely on sheets on rack. DO AHEAD: Cookies can be made up to 4 days ahead. Store in airtight containers at room temperature.

Lemon or Orange Cake (Cake Citron ou Cake Orange) 
2 1/4 cups (250 grams) cake flour, sifted
3/4 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups (335 grams) sugar
Grated zest of 3 lemons or 2 oranges
5 large eggs, at room temperature
2/3 cup (165 grams) crème fraîche, homemade or storebought, or heavy cream, at room temperature
2 tablespoons (30 grams) dark rum (for the lemon cake) or Grand Marnier (for the orange cake)
7 1/2 tablespoons (3 3/4 ounces; 110 grams) unsalted butter, melted and cooled

1. Center a rack in the oven and preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C). Butter and flour a 9 x 5 x 3-inch (22.5 x 12.5 x 7.5-cm) loaf pan, dust the interior with flour, and tap out the excess. Put the pan on an insulated baking sheet or on two stacked regular baking sheets and set aside.
2. Sift the flour, baking powder, and salt together and keep close at hand. Toss the sugar and zest together in a large bowl and rub them together with your fingertips until the sugar is moist and aromatic. Whisk in the eggs, beating until the mixture is pale and foamy, then whisk in the crème fraîche and rum. Switch to a large rubber spatula and gently stir the sifted flour mixture into the batter in three or four additions—the batter should be thick and smooth. Finally, fold in the cooled melted butter in two or three additions.
3. Immediately spoon the batter into the pan and slide the baking sheet(s) into the oven. Bake for 1 hour and 25 to 30 minutes, or until a thin knife inserted into the center of the cake comes out dry and free of crumbs. (Check the cake at the 40-minute mark. If it is browning quickly, cover it loosely with a foil tent for the remainder of the baking period.) Remove the cake from the oven and allow it to cool for about 10 minutes on a cooling rack before turning it out of the pan; invert and cool to room temperature right side up.

Devil's Food Cake with Chocolate Spiderweb 
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup boiling-hot water
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch process)
1/2 cup milk
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups packed dark brown sugar
3/4 cup granulated sugar
4 large eggs, warmed in very warm water 10 minutes
3 large egg whites
1 1/2 cups sugar
6 tablespoons water
1 1/2 tablespoons instant espresso powder (optional; see cooks' note, below)
Equipment: 3 (9- by 2-inch) round cake pans; a pastry bag with writing tip (slightly less than 1/8 inch); a handheld electric mixer

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with racks in upper and lower thirds. Butter cake pans, then line bottoms with rounds of parchment paper. Dust pans with flour, knocking out excess.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt in a small bowl.
Whisk together boiling-hot water and cocoa in another bowl until smooth, then whisk in milk and vanilla.
Beat butter and sugars with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. At low speed, mix in flour mixture in 3 batches, alternating with cocoa mixture, beginning and ending with flour, and mixing until just combined.
Divide batter among pans, smoothing tops. Bake, switching position of pans halfway through, until a wooden pick inserted into center comes out clean and cakes begin to pull away from sides of pans, 20 to 25 minutes.
Cool cakes in pans on racks 20 minutes, then turn out onto racks to cool completely.
Trace a 9-inch circle on a sheet of parchment paper, then draw a spiderweb inside circle. Next to web, draw a 2-to 3-inch spider. Turn drawings over onto a baking sheet.
Melt chocolate chips in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water, stirring. Cool slightly, then transfer to pastry bag. Pipe chocolate onto web, beginning with spokes, and onto spider on parchment, then freeze until firm, about 1 hour.
Put frosting ingredients in a heatproof large bowl set over a pot of simmering water. Beat with handheld mixer at low speed until mixture is warm and sugar has dissolved. Continue to beat at high speed until thick and fluffy, 7 to 10 minutes. Remove bowl from heat and beat frosting until cooled slightly, 5 to 10 minutes more.
Place a cake layer on a serving plate. Spread top with some of frosting. Top with another cake layer and spread with some of frosting, then top with final cake layer. Frost top and sides of cake with remaining frosting.
Cut off portion of parchment with spider and reserve. Invert web on parchment onto cake and carefully peel off paper. Peel off parchment from spider and put spider on web. Let cake stand at room temperature until chocolate decorations have softened.

Four-Layer Pumpkin Cake with Orange-Cream Cheese Frosting 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon Chinese five-spice powder*
1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
3 large eggs, room temperature
1 15-ounce can pure pumpkin
1/3 cup whole milk
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 tablespoon finely grated orange peel
2 cups powdered sugar, sifted
Chopped walnuts or walnut halves, toasted

Position rack in bottom third of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Spray two 9-inch cake pans with 1 1/2-inch sides with nonstick spray. Line bottoms with parchment; spray parchment.
Whisk flour and next 4 ingredients in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in another large bowl until smooth. Beat in brown sugar. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating to blend between additions. Beat in pumpkin. Add dry ingredients to butter mixture in 3 additions alternately with milk in 2 additions, beating to blend between additions. Divide batter between pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool in pans on rack 15 minutes. Run knife around cakes to loosen. Invert cakes onto racks. Remove parchment. Using tart pan bottom as aid, turn cakes over onto racks, top sides up, and cool completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap cakes in plastic and store at room temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth. Add cream cheese and orange peel; beat until smooth. Add powdered sugar and beat on low speed until smooth.
Trim rounded tops from cakes. Using long serrated knife, cut each cake horizontally in half. Place 1 cake layer, cut side up, on large platter. Spoon 2/3 cup frosting atop cake in dollops; spread to edges. Repeat 2 more times with cake and frosting; top with remaining cake layer, cut side down. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake (layer will be thin). DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome; chill. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.
Decorate cake with walnuts and serve.
A spice blend that usually contains ground fennel seeds, Szechuan peppercorns, cinnamon, star anise, and cloves; available in the spice section of most supermarkets.

Chocolate Cake 
9 ounces (250 g) bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped
8 tablespoons (120 g) unsalted butter
1/3 cup (65 g) sugar
4 large eggs, at room temperature, separated
2 tablespoons flour
Pinch of salt

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C). Butter a 9-inch (23-cm) loaf pan and line the bottom with a strip of parchment paper.
2. In a large bowl set pan over simmering water, heat chocolate and butter together just until melted and smooth.
3. Remove from heat and stir in half the sugar, then the egg yolks,and The Sweet Life in Paris 35 flour.
4. Using an electric mixer, or a whisk, begin whipping the egg whites with salt. Keep whipping them until they start to form soft, droopy, peaks. Gradually whip in the remaining sugar until the whites are smooth and hold their shape when the whisk is lifted.
5. Use a rubber spatula to fold one third of the egg whites into the chocolate mixture to lighten it, then fold in the remaining egg whites just until the mixture is smooth and no visible white streaks remain.
6. Scrape the batter into the prepared loaf pan, smooth the top, and bake for 35 minutes, just until the cake feels slightly firm in the center. Do not overbake.
7. Let the cake cool in the pan before serving.

Plum Kuchen 
1 (1/4-ounces) package active dry yeast
1/4 cup warm water (105-110 degrees F)
2 cups plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour, divided
1 cup sugar, divided
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup plain whole-milk yogurt (preferably Greek-style) at room temperature
1 large egg, warmed in shell in warm water 5 minutes
1 1/2 teaspoon grated lemon zest
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 1/4 sticks unsalted butter, cut into tablespoons and softened, divided
3/4 pound firm-ripe plums (about 4 small), halved and pitted
Equipment: a stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment
Accompaniment: plain whole-milk yogurt (preferably Greek-style), sweetened

Stir together yeast and warm water in mixer bowl and let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes. (If mixture doesn't foam, start over with new yeast.)
Add 2 cups flour, 2/3 cup sugar, salt, yogurt, egg, zest, and vanilla to yeast mixture and mix at medium-low speed 1 minute. Beat in 1 stick butter, 1 Tbsp at a time, until incorporated. Beat at medium speed until dough is smooth and shiny, about 5 minutes. (Dough will be very sticky.) Scrape down side of bowl and sprinkle dough with remaining 2 tablespoons flour. Cover bowl with a kitchen towel (not terry cloth) and let dough rise in a draft-free place at warm room temperature until doubled, 1 1/2 to 2 hours.
Spread remaining 2 tablespoons butter in bottom of a 9-inch square baking pan and sprinkle with remaining 1/3 cup sugar. Cut each plum half into 5 or 6 slices and arrange in 1 layer pan.
Stir dough until flour is incorporated, then spread evenly over plums. Loosely cover with buttered plastic wrap, then kitchen towel. Let rise in a draft-free place at warm room temperature until almost doubled, about 1 1/2 hours.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F with rack in middle.
Bake until kuchen is golden-brown and a wooden pick inserted into center comes out clean, 30 to 35 minutes. Cool in pan 5 minutes, then invert and unmold onto a rack to cool completely.

Chocolate Chip Zucchini Cupcakes 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoon sugar
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 pound zucchini, coarsely grated (1 cup)
1 (6-ounces) package semisweet chocolate chips
Equipment: a muffin pan with 12 (1/2-cup) cups with paper liners

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle.
Whisk together flour, cocoa, cinnamon, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. Beat together sugar, oil, egg, and vanilla in a large bowl with an electric mixer until thick and creamy, 2 to 3 minutes. At low speed, mix in flour mixture until just incorporated. Stir in zucchini and chocolate chips. Divide among lined muffin cups and bake until tops spring back when lightly pressed, 30 to 35 minutes. Cool in pan 5 minutes, then turn out to cool completely.

Chocolate Stout Layer Cake with Chocolate Frosting 
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
14 tablespoons (1 3/4 sticks) salted butter, room temperature
1 1/4 cups plus 3 tablespoons sugar
3 large eggs, separated
3/4 cup chocolate stout, regular stout, or porter
2/3 cup freshly brewed strong coffee
1 pound bittersweet chocolate (54% to 60% cacao), chopped
2 cups heavy whipping cream
1 teaspoon instant espresso powder

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of each cake pan with parchment paper round; butter and flour parchment. Place chopped chocolate in medium metal bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of barely simmering water and stir until chocolate is melted and smooth. Remove bowl from over water and set aside.
Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter and 11/4 cups sugar in large bowl until fluffy and pale yellow, about 2 minutes. Add egg yolks 1 at a time, beating until well blended after each addition. Beat in lukewarm melted chocolate, then stout and coffee. Beat flour mixture into chocolate mixture in 2 additions just until incorporated.
Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites and remaining 3 tablespoons sugar in another medium bowl until stiff but not dry. Fold 1/3 of egg whites into cake batter to lighten, then fold in remaining egg whites in 2 additions. Divide batter between prepared cake pans (about 3 cups for each); smooth tops.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into centers comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Transfer cakes to racks and cool in pans 20 minutes. Invert cakes onto racks; remove parchment paper and cool completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and store at room temperature.
Place chopped chocolate in medium heatproof bowl. Combine whipping cream and espresso powder in medium saucepan. Bring cream mixture to simmer over medium-high heat, whisking occasionally. Pour cream mixture over chopped chocolate; let stand 1 minute, then whisk until chocolate is melted and mixture is smooth. Chill chocolate frosting until slightly thickened and spreadable, stirring occasionally, about 2 hours (or for quick chilling, place frosting in freezer until thickened and spreadable, stirring occasionally, about 30 minutes).
Using serrated knife, trim rounded tops from both cake layers so that tops are flat. Place 1 cake layer, trimmed side up, on 9-inch-diameter tart pan bottom or cardboard round, then place on rack set over baking sheet. Drop 1 1/4 cups frosting by large spoonfuls over top of cake layer; spread frosting evenly to edges with offset spatula or butter knife. Top with second cake layer, trimmed side down. Spread remaining frosting evenly over top and sides of cake. DO AHEAD: Can be made up to 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let cake stand at room temperature at least 1 hour and up to 3 hours before serving.

Glowing Jack-o'-Lantern Cookies 
1/3 cup hard candies
1/2 cup (1 stick) butter, at room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon lemon zest, optional
1 teaspoon lemon juice
red and yellow liquid coloring or orange paste coloring
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment, foil, or a Silpat mat (not wax paper, which will stick).
2. Unwrap the candies if wrapped, put them in a heavy ziplock bag, and crush them into powder with the flat side of a meat tenderizer or the bottom of a saucepan.
Beat the butter and sugar in a large mixing bowl until creamy, and then blend in the egg, lemon zest, if using, lemon juice, and food coloring. Begin with 6 drops of red and 5 drops of yellow liquid coloring or a dab of orange paste; add more to achieve your desired shade. Stir well until fully combined.
4. Add the flour, baking powder, and salt to the bowl, and mix well.
5. Roll half of the dough out on a lightly floured surface and cut out 8 big jack-o'-lantern shapes with a cookie cutter, or freehand with the tip of a paring knife. Make short, fat pumpkins about 4 inches wide by 3 inches high, or make tall, thin pumpkins about 4 inches tall and 2 to 3 inches wide. You want some variety here! Use the knife to cut out big eyes, nose, and mouth in each (don't do a lot of teeth - they tend to break off). Keep in mind that you want the eyes, nose, and mouth to be wide enough to hold the melted candy. Carefully lift the pumpkins with a spatula and transfer them to the prepared baking sheets. Use the tip of the paring knife to push back the eye, nose, and mouth openings to make them as wide as possible without losing the bridges of dough between the features. Repeat with the remaining dough half.
6. With the tip of a small spoon, sprinkle candy powder generously into the eyes, nose, and mouth openings, directly to the parchment. Try to keep the candy off the surface of the cookies.
7. Bake for 8 to 10 minutes, watching carefully. Remove as soon as the candy has melted; don't let the surface of the cookies brown. They should be just set and very pale.
8. Cool the cookies on the baking sheets, or carefully lift the parchment off the sheets and transfer the whole sheet to cooling racks (only if the racks are big enough to hold the sheet). When the cookies are completely cool, carefully peel off the parchment.

Curry Coriander Shorties 
2 teaspoons coriander seeds
1 1/2 teaspoon curry powder (preferably Madras)
2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
Equipment: an electric coffee/spice grinder or a mortar and pestle

Toast coriander in a small heavy skillet over medium heat, shaking skillet often, until fragrant and a shade darker, about 2 minutes. Cool, then finely grind in grinder.
Toast curry powder in same skillet over medium heat, stirring, until fragrant and a shade or two darker, about 1 minute.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with racks in upper and lower thirds.
Blend butter, sugar, vanilla, and salt with a rubber spatula. Whisk together flour and spices, then blend into butter mixture with spatula.
Form 1-inch balls of dough and arrange 2 inches apart on 2 ungreased large baking sheets. With side of a floured pencil or chopstick, press an X into top of each cookie, gently flattening to 1 1/2 inches in diameter.
Bake, switching position of sheets halfway through, until edges are golden, 20 to 25 minutes. Cool on sheets 5 minutes, then transfer cookies to racks to cool.

Poppy Seed Pound Cake with Plum Pluot Compote 
2 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
1/4 cup poppy seeds
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 vanilla bean
1 3/4 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 large eggs, warmed in very warm water 10 minutes
1/2 cup half-and-half at room temperature 30 minutes
2 pounds firm-ripe plums and pluots, peeled and cut into 1/2-inch wedges
3/4 cup sugar, or to taste
1 teaspoon grated lemon zest , divided
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon grated nutmeg
Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped creamAccompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter and flour a 9- by 5-inch loaf pan.
Whisk together flour, poppy seeds, baking powder, and salt.
Scrape seeds from vanilla bean with tip of a paring knife into a bowl, then add butter and sugar and beat with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. At low speed, add flour mixture in 3 batches, alternating with half-and-half, beginning and ending with flour, and mixing until just incorporated.
Spoon batter into loaf pan, smoothing top.
Bake until golden-brown and a wooden pick inserted into center comes out with crumbs adhering, 1 to 1 1/4 hours. Cool in pan 30 minutes. Run a knife around edge of cake to loosen, then invert cake onto a rack. Cool completely, right side up.
Stir together fruit, 3/4 cup sugar, 1/2 teaspoon zest, and lemon juice in a heavy medium saucepan. Simmer, stirring occasionally, until fruit begins to fall apart and liquid is slightly syrupy, about 30 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in remaining 1/2 teaspoon zest, nutmeg, and more sugar if desired. Transfer to a bowl to cool. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Nectarine Golden Cake 
1 cup all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
Rounded 1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup plus 1/2 tablespoon sugar, divided
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon pure almond extract
2 nectarines, pitted and cut into 1/2-inch-thick wedges
1/2 teaspoon grated nutmeg
Equipment: a 9-inch springform pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Lightly butter springform pan.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt.
Beat butter and 3/4 cup sugar with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in extracts. At low speed, mix in flour mixture until just combined.
Spread batter evenly in pan, then scatter nectarines over top. Stir together nutmeg and remaining 1/2 tablespoon sugar and sprinkle over top. Bake until cake is golden-brown and top is firm but tender when lightly touched (cake will rise over fruit), 45 to 50 minutes. Cool in pan 10 minutes. Remove side of pan and cool to warm.

Brown Butter Pound Cake 
2 1/4 sticks unsalted butter
2 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1/2 cup granulated sugar
4 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter and lightly flour an 8 1/2-by 4 1/2-inch loaf pan.
Heat butter in a 10-inch heavy skillet over medium heat until milk solids on bottom are a dark chocolate brown. Transfer to a shallow bowl and chill in freezer until just congealed, about 15 minutes.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt.
Beat together brown butter and sugars with an electric mixer until fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla.
At low speed, mix in flour mixture until just incorporated.
Transfer batter to pan, smoothing top, then rap pan on counter to settle batter. Bake until golden-brown and a wooden pick inserted into center comes out clean, 1 to 1 1/4 hours. Cool in pan 30 minutes, then invert cake onto a rack and cool completely, right side up, 1 hour.

Pecan Brown Butter Cookies 
1 1/2 sticks unsalted butter
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
2 cups pecans (7 ounces), toasted , cooled, and chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with racks in upper and lower thirds.
Heat butter in a 10-inch heavy skillet over medium heat until milk solids on bottom are a dark chocolate brown. Transfer to a shallow bowl and chill in freezer until just congealed, about 15 minutes.
Blend brown butter with sugars, flour, baking soda, salt, and eggs in a food processor until smooth. Transfer to a bowl and stir in pecans.
Spoon tablespoons of batter onto parchment-lined baking sheets, arranging them about 1 inch apart. Bake, switching position of sheets halfway through, until browned, 15 to 18 minutes. Transfer cookies to a rack to cool (cookies will crisp as they cool).

Revani 
3 cups sugar
4 cups water
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice (1/2 lemon)
9 eggs, separated
3/4 cup sugar
grated rind from 1 lemon
2 cups semolina or farina (cream of wheat)
1/3 cup flour
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1 cup heavy cream, whipped with 1 tablespoon sugar
1/4 cup ground nuts

Bring sugar, water, and lemon juice to a boil, simmer 15 minutes. Cool.
Beat the egg yolks, sugar and lemon rind with an electric beater for 5 minutes or until pale yellow. Wash and dry the beater.
Fold the semolina and flour into the beaten yolks until well blended. Set aside.
Beat the egg whites with the clean beater until stiff. Alternate gently folding the egg whites and the melted butter into the yolk and flour mix.
Pour batter into a well greased and floured 9x12 inch or 10x12 inch baking pan. Bake in a preheated 350 degrees F oven for 40 minutes, or until a pick inserted in the center comes out clean.
Pour the syrup over the hot cake. Let it stand for several hours until the syrup is absorbed and the cake is cool.
Cut the cake into squares. Serve with whipped cream and sprinkle nuts on top.

Blueberry Flaxseed Upside-Down Cakes 
6 tablespoons (85 g) butter, melted
3/4 cup (90 g) cake flour
1/3 cup (110 g) flaxseeds
1 teaspoon (5 ml) baking powder
1/4 teaspoon (1 ml) salt
1/3 egg
1 cup (120 ml) milk
1/2 cup (100 g) brown sugar
1 cup (115 g) blueberries
2 tablespoons (30 ml) raw sugar

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C).*
1. Using 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of the melted butter and a pastry brush, grease a 6-cup muffin tin.
2. Combine the flour, flaxseeds, baking powder, and salt in a small bowl.
3. Whisk together the remaining melted butter, egg, milk, and brown sugar in a large bowl.
4. Add the flour mixture and whisk until smooth.
5. Divide the batter among the 6 cups in the muffin tin and scatter the blueberries onto the batter. Sprinkle with the raw sugar.
6. Bake the cakes for 20 minutes or until golden brown. Allow to cool, and then wrap each in parchment paper.*
*An adult helper should handle this step.

Trail Mix Freezer Cookies 
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1/2 cup white whole wheat flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3/4 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups old-fashioned oats
1/2 cup unsweetened flaked coconut
2 cups trail mix, coarsely chopped

Line 3 baking sheets with parchment paper. Mix first 6 ingredients in bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and both sugars in large bowl until fluffy. Add eggs and vanilla; beat until mixture is fluffy, 1 to 2 minutes. Reduce speed to low; beat in flour mixture until just combined. Fold in oats and coconut. Stir in trail mix.
Using 2-inch-diameter ice cream scoop, drop dough onto sheets, spacing about 2 inches apart. Do Ahead For ready-to-bake dough, freeze dough on sheets until firm. Transfer frozen dough to resealable plastic bags; keep frozen until ready to bake.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. For freshly made cookie dough, bake until cookies are golden brown, about 13 minutes. (For frozen dough, arrange frozen cookies 2 inches apart on parchment lined baking sheets; bake until golden brown, about 16 minutes.) Transfer to racks to cool.

Thyme, Lemon, and Sea-Salt Shortbread 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon freshly grated lemon zest
1 1/2 teaspoons finely chopped fresh thyme
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter at room temperature
1 large egg, lightly beaten
2 large egg yolks
2 teaspoons water
1 tablespoon coarse sea salt

Stir the flour, salt, lemon peel, and thyme together in a medium bowl. With your fingertips, rub the butter into the dry ingredients until a coarse, crumbly mixture forms. Blend the lightly beaten egg, egg yolks, and water together. Reserve 1 tablespoon of the egg mixture for brushing.
Make a well in the center of the flour. Add the remaining egg mixture and blend together with your hands without kneading the dough together; the dough will look a bit crumbly. Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface. Knead the dough together once or twice, just until it sticks together. Press the dough into a 1-inch disc, wrap in plastic film, and refrigerate until firm, about 1/2 hour.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F and line the bottom of a baking sheet with parchment paper or a nonstick baking mat. Remove the dough from the refrigerator, unwrap, and place it on a floured work surface. Press the dough into a 6-by-5-inch rectangle. With a rolling pin, roll the dough into a larger 10-by-7-inch rectangle, about 1/4 inch thick. Cut the dough in half, forming two 5-by-7-inch pieces. Using a pizza wheel or sharp paring knife, cut into 1/2-inch-wide strips. Carefully place the cookies on the prepared baking sheet leaving a little room between each cookie. Brush the tops with the reserved egg mixture and sprinkle a little coarse sea salt on top. Gently press the salt into the surface of each cookie so it does not fall off. Bake until lightly browned, about 20 minutes. Transfer to a cooling rack and serve warm or at room temperature. Store the cookies in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 1 week.

Phoenician Honey Cookies (Biscuits) 
butter, for greasing
1 3/4 cups (200 g / 7 oz) all-purpose (plain) flour
pinch of salt
2 tablespoons superfine (caster) sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil
1/2 tablespoon grated lemon zest
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 teaspoons ammonium bicarbonate or baking soda (bicarbonate of soda)
equal quantities olive and corn oil, for deep-frying
finely chopped walnuts, for sprinkling
1 1/4 cups (250 g / 9 oz) superfine (caster) sugar
1/2 cup (120 ml / 4 fl oz) honey

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C/Gas Mark 6) and grease 2 cookie sheets (baking trays) with butter. Sift together the flour and salt into a large bowl and make a well in the center. Add the sugar, oil, lemon zest, and vanilla. Stir the baking soda into 5 tablespoons water in a bowl and pour into the well. Using a spoon, gradually incorporate the dry ingredients, then knead gently to a soft and pliable dough, adding a little more water if necessary. Break off small pieces of dough and roll into cylinders the size of your thumb, then press lightly to flatten. Put them onto the prepared baking sheet, spaced well apart, and bake for 20-25 minutes, or until lightly golden. Remove from the oven. To make the syrup, put the sugar, honey, and 1 1/4 cups (300 ml / 1/2 pint) water into a pan and bring to a boil. Boil for 5 minutes, then remove from the heat. Pour a mixture of equal parts olive and corn oil into a heavy pan to a depth of 3 inches (7.5 cm) and heat it to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C), or until a cube of bread browns in 30 seconds. Carefully drop batches of the cookies into the hot oil and fry for a few minutes, until golden brown. Remove with a slotted spoon, drain well, and drop into the hot syrup. Let absorb syrup for 3-4 minutes. Remove with a slotted spoon, transfer to a serving platter, and sprinkle with finely chopped walnuts.

Upside-Down Pear Chocolate Cake 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, at room temperature, for pan
1 cup (7 ounces) granulated sugar
1/4 cup water
3 firm but ripe pears, peeled, cored, and each cut into 12 slices (1 pound prepped)
1/4 cup (2 ounces) unsalted butter
4 ounces dark chocolate, chopped
1 cup (5 ounces) all-purpose flour
1/3 cup (1 ounce) unsweetened Dutch-processed cocoa powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon fine sea salt
3/4 cup (5 1/4 ounces) granulated sugar
2 eggs
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup whole milk
Chantilly cream or Vanilla Bean Ice Cream, for serving (optional)

Butter a 9-inch round baking pan.
To make the fruit topping, put the sugar and water in a heavy saucepan (one with a tight-fitting lid) and stir until the sugar dissolves. Bring the mixture to a boil over medium heat, then cover and cook for 2 minutes. (Covering in this way allows the steam to wash down the sides of pan, which will prevent any sugar crystals from forming.) Uncover the saucepan and continue to boil the sugar, gently and slowly swirling the pan as needed to cook the caramel evenly, until it becomes a dark amber color. Occasionally wash down the sides of the pan with a pastry brush dipped in cold water. Carefully pour the caramel into the prepared pan and allow it to harden. The pan will be very hot from the sugar, so take care in moving it if you need to. Fan the pear slices on top of the caramel in a circle around the perimeter, filling in the center with the remaining slices.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
To make the cake, place the butter and chocolate in a small saucepan over low heat and melt, stirring occasionally. Sift the flour, cocoa, baking soda, and salt together in a bowl. Transfer the melted chocolate to a mixing bowl or the bowl of a stand mixer and add the sugar. Using a handheld mixer with beaters or a stand mixer with the paddle attachment, beat on medium speed for about 3 minutes, until light and fluffy. Add the eggs one at time, scraping down the sides of the bowl after each addition. Stir in the vanilla. Stir in the flour mixture in three additions alternating with the milk in two additions, beginning and ending with the flour and scraping down the sides of the bowl occasionally.
Pour the batter into the prepared pan and bake in the middle of the oven for 40 to 45 minutes, or until the cake bounces back slightly when touched. Cool on a wire rack for 15 minutes, then invert the cake onto a plate, leaving the pan on top of the cake for 5 minutes before you remove it. Serve the cake warm, topped with a small dollop of Chantilly cream or a scoop of Vanilla Bean Ice Cream.
Storage: Wrapped in plastic wrap, the cake will keep at room temperature for up to 3 days.

Yogurt Cake with Currant Raspberry Sauce 
3 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
2 cups granulated sugar
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
3 large eggs, warmed in shell in warm water 10 minutes
2 cups well-stirred plain whole-milk yogurt (not Greek-style) atroom temperature 30 minutes
2 cups fresh red currants (1/2 pound), stemmed
4 cups fresh raspberries (16 ounces), divided
2/3 cup granulated sugar room temperature 30 minutes
3 cups confectioners sugar
3 tablespoons light corn syrup
1/2 cup heavy cream
Scant 1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
Equipment: a 13- by 9-inch cake pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter cake pan, then line bottom with a rectangle of parchment paper and butter parchment. Dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Sift together cake flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt.
Beat together butter, sugar, and vanilla with an electric mixer at high speed until pale and fluffy, 3 to 5 minutes. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, at medium speed. At low speed, mix in flour mixture in 3 batches, alternating with yogurt, beginning and ending with flour mixture, and mixing until just combined. Spread batter evenly in pan and rap pan on counter several times to eliminate air bubbles.
Bake until cake pulls away from sides of pan and a wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean, 35 to 45 minutes. Cool in pan 10 minutes, then run a knife around edge. Invert onto a rack and discard parchment. Cool completely, about 1 hour.
Stir together currants, 2 cups raspberries, sugar, and 1/8 teaspoon salt in a medium saucepan and let stand until juicy, about 15 minutes. Simmer, stirring occasionally, until fruit breaks down, about 8 minutes. Force through a fine-mesh sieve into a bowl, discarding solids. Cool sauce.
Stir together confectioners sugar, corn syrup, cream, and vanilla until smooth.
Put cake on a platter and spread icing on top in a thick layer, letting it run down sides. Let icing set at least 15 minutes. Serve with sauce and remaining 2 cups raspberries on the side.

Spiced Pumpkin Layer Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting 
Butter for coating cake pans, at room temperature
2 cups all-purpose flour, plus extra for dusting the pan
2 cups granulated sugar
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon kosher or sea salt
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
3 large eggs, beaten
1 cup canola or vegetable oil
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups canned unsweetened pumpkin purée
1 cup lightly packed sweetened flaked coconut
3/4 cup canned crushed pineapple (do not drain)
1/3 cup dried currants
2 packages (8 ounces each) cream cheese, at room temperature
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, at room temperature
2 tablespoons canned unsweetened pumpkin purée
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar, sifted
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract

Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch sides. Line the bottom of each pan with a circle of parchment paper. Butter the parchment paper. Sprinkle the pans with flour, tap the pans to evenly distribute the flour, and then shake off the excess flour. Set aside.
To make the cake, in a large bowl, sift together the 2 cups flour, the granulated sugar, baking soda, cinnamon, salt, nutmeg, and cloves. In a medium bowl, combine the eggs, oil, and vanilla. In another medium bowl, combine the pumpkin purée, coconut, crushed pineapple, and currants.
Add the egg mixture to the flour mixture and stir with a wooden spoon until just combined. Add the pumpkin mixture and stir just until combined. Divide the batter between the prepared pans, spreading it evenly. Bake for 35 to 40 minutes until a toothpick inserted into the center of a cake comes out clean. Transfer to wire racks and let cool in the pans for 15 minutes. Run a table knife around the edge of the pans to loosen the cakes. Invert the cakes onto the racks and peel off the parchment paper. Let cool completely before frosting the cakes.
To make the frosting, in the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, beat the cream cheese on medium speed for about 3 minutes until smooth. Add the butter and beat for about 2 minutes until combined. Add the pumpkin purée and beat until incorporated, about 1 minute. Add the confectioners' sugar and vanilla and beat for about 3 minutes until fluffy.
Place 1 cake layer on a cake plate or platter. Using an offset spatula, spread half of the frosting over the top of the first cake layer. Spread the frosting right to the edge of the top without frosting the sides of the cake. Carefully place the second cake on top, lining up the edges. Spread the remaining frosting over the top of the cake without frosting the sides. Swirl the frosting to decorate the top. Refrigerate the cake to set the frosting. Remove from the refrigerator 30 to 40 minutes before serving.

Fuji Apple Spice Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting 
3 cups all purpose flour
1 3/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg or ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 tablespoons bourbon, apple brandy, or rum (optional)
1 1/2 cups unsweetened applesauce
2 medium Fuji or Gala apples (13 to 14 ounces total), peeled, halved, cored, cut into 1/3-inch cubes
1 1/2 cups finely chopped pecans (about 6 ounces)
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Pinch of salt
3 cups powdered sugar (measured, then sifted)
Coarsely chopped toasted pecans (for garnish)
2 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch high sides. Line bottom of each pan with parchment paper round. Whisk first 7 ingredients in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat 1 cup butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add both sugars and beat until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla, then bourbon, if desired (mixture may look curdled). Add flour mixture to egg mixture in 3 additions alternately with applesauce in 2 additions, beating until blended after each addition. Stir in apples and pecans. Divide batter between cake pans; smooth tops.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center of each comes out clean, about 50 minutes. Transfer cakes to racks and cool in pans 15 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cakes. Invert cakes onto racks; peel off parchment paper. Place another rack atop 1 cake and invert again so that cake is rounded side up. Repeat with second cake. Cool completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap each cake in plastic and stoer at room temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until smooth. Beat in vanilla extract and pinch of salt. Gradually add powdered sugar, beating until frosting is smooth and creamy, about 2 minutes.
Using long serrated knife, trim off rounded tops of cakes to make level; brush off any loose crumbs. Transfer 1 cake to platter, trimmed side up. Drop half of frosting (about 11/2 cups) by spoonfuls atop cake. Spread frosting evenly to edges of cake. Top with second cake, trimmed side down. Drop remaining frosting by spoonfuls onto top of cake, leaving sides of cake plain. Spread frosting to top edges of cake, swirling and creating peaks, if desired. Sprinkle with pecans. Let cake stand at room temperature 1 hour to allow frosting to set slightly. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let cake stand at room temperature at least 2 hours before serving.

Chocolate Cake with Ganache and Praline Topping 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes, room temperature
1/4 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 cup boiling water
1 cup all purpose flour
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1/4 cup buttermilk
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
3 tablespoons heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
3/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/4 cup heavy whipping cream
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
3/4 cup powdered sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup pecans, toasted , chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 9-inch cake pan with nonstick spray. Line with parchment. Spray parchment. Dust with flour, tapping out any excess.
Place butter and cocoa powder in medium bowl. Pour 1/2 cup boiling water over; stir. Let stand 2 minutes; whisk until blended. Whisk flour, sugar, baking soda, and coarse salt in another medium bowl. Whisk buttermilk, egg, and vanilla in large bowl. Gradually whisk cocoa mixture into buttermilk mixture; whisk until smooth. Add flour mixture in 3 additions, whisking to blend between additions (batter will be thin). Pour batter into prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool in pan 10 minutes. Run knife around pan edges to release cake. Invert onto rack; remove pan and parchment. Cool completely.
Place chocolate and cream in microwave-safe bowl. Heat in microwave in 15-second intervals, stirring occasionally, until melted and smooth. Stir in butter. Let stand until spreadable, about 30 minutes. Spread over top and sides of cake. Transfer cake to plate. Chill 2 hours and up to 1 day.
Stir first 3 ingredients in heavy large saucepan over medium-high heat until butter melts. Boil 1 minute without stirring. Remove from heat; whisk in sugar and vanilla. Add pecans; stir just to incorporate. Quickly pour praline over cake. Spread just to edges (topping sets quickly). DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome. Store at room temperature.

Vanilla Cupcakes 
2 cups garbanzo-fava bean flour
1 cup potato starch
½ cup arrowroot
1 tablespoon plus 1 ½ teaspoons baking powder
½ teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon xanthan gum
2 teaspoons salt
2/3 cup coconut oil
1 1/3 cups agave nectar
¾ cup homemade applesauce or store‑bought unsweetened applesauce
3 tablespoons pure vanilla extract
grated zest of 1 lemon
1 cup hot water
vanilla frosting

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Line 2 standard 12-cup muffin tins with paper liners.
In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, potato starch, arrowroot, baking powder, baking soda, xanthan gum, and salt. Add the oil, agave nectar, applesauce, vanilla, and lemon zest to the dry ingredients and combine. Stir in the hot water and mix until the batter is smooth.
Pour 1/3 cup batter into each prepared cup, almost filling it. Bake the cupcakes on the center rack for 22 minutes, rotating the tins 180 degrees after 15 minutes. The finished cupcakes will be golden brown and will bounce back when pressure is applied gently to the center.
Let the cupcakes stand in the tins for 20 minutes, then transfer them to a wire rack and cool completely. Using a frosting knife, gently spread 1 tablespoon vanilla frosting over each cupcake. Store the cupcakes in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to 3 days.

Chocolate Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 tablespoon (7 g) ground flaxseed (equivalent of 1 egg)
3 tablespoons (45 ml) water
3/4 cup (170 g) nondairy, nonhydrogenated butter (such as Earth Balance)
1 cup (200 g) granulated sugar
1 teaspoon (5 ml) vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups (155 g) whole-wheat pastry flour
1/3 cup (40 g) unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder (look for aluminum-free)
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (175 g) nondairy semisweet chocolate or peanut butter chips (Tami clearly loves this combination)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C, or gas mark 4). In a food processor or blender, whip flaxseed and water together until mixture reaches a thick and creamy, almost gelatinous consistency. Set aside.
In a large-size bowl, mix butter and sugar until creamy. Add  inchflax egg inch and vanilla.
In a separate bowl, blend flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. Add this dry mixture to the wet mixture, and mix until everything is well blended. If you need a little extra moisture, add a small amount of water or nondairy milk.
Stir in chips. Form balls and flatten slightly on an ungreased cookie sheet. Bake for 7 to 9 minutes, until the tops are no longer gooey.

Double Ginger Cookies 
1 1/2 cups organic all-purpose flour
1 1/2 cups organic whole wheat flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon organic ground ginger
3/4 cup minced organic crystallized ginger
1 1/4 cups organic cane sugar
2 tablespoons organic ground flaxseed
1/2 cup organic unsweetened applesauce*
1/4 cup organic canola oil
1 teaspoon grated organic lemon zest
1 tablespoon fresh organic lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon organic vanilla extract
*Note: Tip for parents: Snack packs of applesauce come in 1/2-cup servings.

In a large bowl, whisk together the flours, baking powder, baking soda, salt, ground ginger, and crystallized ginger.
In a separate bowl, combine 1 cup of the sugar and all the remaining ingredients.
Stir the two mixtures together until moist and incorporated, shape into a disk, and cover with plastic wrap. Cover and refrigerate for 1 hour, or up to 1 day.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Place the remaining 1/4 cup sugar in a shallow bowl. Use 2 Silpats or lightly grease 2 cookie sheets.
Flour your hands and form the dough into 1-inch balls. Roll the dough balls through the sugar, and then flatten them with the greased bottom of a drinking glass or cup. Place the cookies 2 inches apart on the prepared baking sheets.
Bake the cookies for 18 minutes, or until slightly browned (they won't get very dark, so be careful not to keep them in too long).
Let the cookies cool on the baking sheets for a minute. Then transfer them to wire racks to cool completely.

Lemon Cheesecake Squares with Fresh Berries 
9 whole graham crackers
5 tablespoons butter
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/3 cup sugar
1 large egg
3 tablespoons sour cream
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2 teaspoons finely grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Fresh berries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Fold 16-inch long piece of foil to 8x16-inch strip; place in 8x8x2-inch metal baking pan, leaving overhang on 2 sides. Repeat with another sheet of foil in opposite direction, lining pan completely. Butter foil.
Place graham crackers in heavy-duty plastic bag. Using rolling pin or mallet, crush crackers finely. Melt butter in medium skillet over low heat. Remove from heat; add crumbs and toss to coat. Press crumbs evenly onto bottom of prepared pan. Bake crust until deep golden, about 12 minutes. Cool crust while preparing filling.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in egg and sour cream, then lemon juice, lemon peel, and vanilla. Spread batter over crust.
Bake cheesecake until slightly puffed and set in center, about 30 minutes; cool completely in pan on rack. Chill cheesecake until cold, at least 2 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; keep chilled.
Using foil overhang as aid, lift cheesecake from pan. Cut into 16 squares; arrange on platter. Top each square with berries. Chill until ready to serve, up to 3 hours. Serve chilled.

Walnut Cake with Sautéed Pears, Pecorino, and Black Pepper Ice Cream 
3 cups whole milk
1 cup heavy whipping cream
1 tablespoon whole black peppercorns
Pinch of salt
7 large egg yolks
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
2 cups (about 1/2 pound) chopped walnuts
2 cups powdered sugar
3/4 cup almond flour*
1/2 cup all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
9 large egg whites
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons honey
6 firm Anjou pears, peeled, cored, cut into 1/4-inch-thick slices
1 1/2 tablespoons pear brandy
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1/2 cup shaved Pecorino Romano cheese
*Available at specialty foods stores and Italian markets.

Combine milk, cream, peppercorns, and salt in heavy large saucepan. Bring just to simmer. Whisk yolks and sugar in medium bowl. Gradually whisk hot milk mixture into yolk mixture. Return to saucepan and stir constantly over medium heat until mixture is thick enough to coat back of spoon, about 3 minutes (do not boil). Strain custard into medium bowl; cover and refrigerate until cold, about 4 hours.
Do ahead: Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled.
Transfer custard to ice cream maker and process according to manufacturer's instructions. Transfer ice cream to container; cover and freeze.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13x9x2-inch metal baking pan. Process walnuts and powdered sugar in processor until nuts are finely ground. Transfer to large bowl. Add almond flour, all purpose flour, and salt. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites and vanilla extract in large bowl until frothy. With mixer running, gradually add brown sugar and beat until stiff peaks form. Stir 1/3 egg-white mixture into flour mixture. Fold in remaining egg-white mixture in 2 additions. Pour into prepared pan. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 27 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack.
Melt butter with sugar and honey in heavy extra-large skillet over medium-high heat. Add pears and cook until liquid evaporates and pears are golden brown, about 15 minutes. Stir in brandy and lemon juice.
Cut cake into 8 pieces. Place cake on plates. Arrange shaved cheese on side of plates. Top with sautéed pears and scoop of black pepper ice cream.

Blueberry Streusel Cake 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon packed dark brown sugar
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon granulated sugar
3/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 stick cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sour cream
3/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 stick unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg
1/2 pound blueberries (3 1/4 cups)
Accompaniment: sweetened whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Line bottom and sides of a 9-inch square baking pan with heavy-duty foil, leaving an overhang on 2 sides. Butter bottom and sides of pan, then dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Stir together flour, sugars, cinnamon, and a pinch of salt in a large bowl. Blend in butter with your fingertips or a pastry blender until mixture forms large clumps.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a bowl.
Stir together sour cream and vanilla in a small bowl.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add egg and beat until well blended.
At low speed, mix in flour mixture in 3 batches, alternating with sour-cream mixture and mixing until just combined.
Gently fold in blueberries.
Spoon batter into pan, smoothing top (preferably with an offset spatula). Crumble half of topping evenly over batter.
Bake 25 minutes, then remove from oven and crumble remaining topping evenly over cake. Bake until a wooden pick inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes more. Cool in pan 10 minutes. Lift out cake using foil and cool completely on rack.

Chocolate Chip Cookies/Cookie Sandwiches 
1 cup coconut oil
6 tablespoons homemade applesauce or store-bought unsweetened applesauce
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons pure vanilla extract
1 ¼ cups evaporated cane juice
2 cups Bob's Red Mill gluten-free all-purpose baking flour
¼ cup flax meal
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 ½ teaspoons xanthan gum
1 cup vegan chocolate chips

Preheat the oven the 325 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper.
In a medium bowl, mix together the oil, applesauce, salt, vanilla, and evaporated cane juice. In another medium bowl, whisk together the flour, flax meal, baking soda and xanthan gum. Using a rubber spatula, carefully add the dry ingredients to the wet mixture and stir until a grainy dough is formed. Gently fold in the chocolate chips just until they are evenly distributed through the dough.
Using a melon baller, scoop the dough onto the prepared baking sheets, spacing the portions 1 inch apart. Gently press each with the heel of your hand to help them spread. Bake the cookies on the center rack for 15 minutes, rotating the sheets 180 degrees after 9 minutes. The finished cookies will be crisp on the edges and soft in the center.
Let the cookies stand on the sheets for 10 minutes, then transfer them to a wire rack and cool completely before covering. Store the cookies in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 3 days.

Dense Chocolate Fudge Cake 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 3/4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
Slightly rounded 1/4 teaspoon salt
8 ounces bittersweet chocolate (60% cacao), finely chopped
1 1/2 sticks unsalted butter
3 large eggs, lightly beaten
1 cup water
1 1/2 cups sugar
4 ounces bittersweet chocolate (60% cacao), finely chopped
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, cut into bits
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
Equipment: a 9-inch springform pan
Accompaniment: vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F with rack in middle. Flip bottom of springform pan so lip is facing down, then lock in place. Butter bottom and side of pan, then dust bottom with flour, knocking out excess.
Whisk flour, cocoa, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a large bowl.
Melt chocolate with butter in a 3-quart heavy saucepan over low heat, stirring. Remove from heat and whisk in eggs and water until smooth. Whisk into flour mixture, then whisk in sugar until smooth. Pour into pan and rap on counter to eliminate any air bubbles.
Bake until cake is just starting to pull away from side of pan and a wooden pick inserted into center comes out clean, 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 hours.
Cool cake in pan 20 minutes, then remove side of pan and cool completely, at least 1 hour.
Melt chocolate in a small metal bowl set over simmering water, stirring until smooth. Stir in butter and corn syrup. Cool slightly, then spread just over top of cooled cake.

Carrot Cake with Cream Cheese-Lemon Zest Frosting 
1/3 cup dried shredded organic unsweetened coconut
About 1 pound organic farm-fresh carrots, peeled and cut into 2-inch Lengths (3 cups)
1 cup chopped organic pineapple
1 1/2 cups organic all-purpose flour
1/2 cup organic whole wheat pastry flour
1 1/2 cups organic cane sugar
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 1/4 teaspoons organic ground cinnamon
Pinch of freshly grated organic nutmeg
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup dark-brown sugar
3/4 cup organic canola oil
1 tablespoon organic vanilla extract
3 organic eggs
Cream Cheese-Lemon Zest Frosting
3/4 cup chopped toasted organic walnuts
1/2 cup organic golden raisins, plumped in warm water for 20 minutes and drained
1/2 tablespoon minced fresh organic ginger

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 8-inch round cake pans and line the bottoms with parchment paper (to ensure that the cake will not stick), or place liners in 2 muffin pans for 24 cupcakes. Set aside.
Place the dried coconut in a cup of warm water to soften and set it aside for 15 minutes.
Place the carrots in a food processor and pulse on and off for 1 minute. Then add the pineapple and pulse until the carrots are cut into very small pieces and the pineapple is pureed, 1 to 2 minutes.
In a large bowl, sift together the dry ingredients. Add the brown sugar and use a whisk to break up any lumps.
Drain the coconut and place it in a medium bowl. Add the oil, vanilla extract, eggs, and carrot-pineapple mixture, and whisk to combine.
Add the wet ingredients into the dry, mixing with a rubber spatula to incorporate but not overmix. When the batter is almost mixed, stir in the additions, if using. Pour the batter into the prepared pans.
Bake for 55 minutes, or until the tops are a very golden brown and a tester inserted in the center comes out clean. (It may look as if the cake is too well done, but it takes a while to bake because it's so dense.) For cupcakes, the baking time is 35 to 40 minutes.
Let the cakes cool in the pans for 10 minutes. Then invert them onto a wire rack and let them cool completely.
Fill and frost the cake with the Cream Cheese-Lemon Zest Frosting (for added oomph, add 1/2 tablespoon minced fresh ginger to the frosting).
Fill and frost the cake with cream cheese frosting and let chill. Tint 1/2 cup frosting lemon yellow, and use the 10 tip to pipe 5 dots in a circle to create simple buttercup flowers. Then combine any remaining yellow frosting with some additional cream cheese frosting and tint it leaf green. I use tip #67, which pipes small fern stems. Pipe the center stamen with cream cheese frosting and chill to set.

Giant Chocolate Cake with Bittersweet Chocolate Ganache and Edible Flowers 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup plus 3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1 cup boiling water
2 cups sugar
3 large eggs
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, cut into 1-inch pieces
1 cup buttermilk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
5 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) chilled butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup heavy whipping cream
3/4 cup sugar
Edible flowers* (for decoration)
1 12-inch round cake pan with 2-inch-high sides

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 12-inch round cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Line bottom of pan with parchment paper round. Spray parchment paper with nonstick spray. Dust pan with flour, tapping out any excess. Sift 2 cups flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Sift cocoa into another medium bowl. Pour 1 cup boiling water over cocoa; whisk to blend. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and eggs in large bowl until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add butter to egg mixture and beat until blended. Beat in cocoa mixture. Add buttermilk and vanilla; beat to blend. Add dry ingredients and beat on low just to blend. Transfer batter to prepared pan; smooth top.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 38 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan on rack. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.
Place chopped chocolate, butter, and vanilla in medium bowl. Bring cream and sugar to boil in medium saucepan, stirring to dissolve sugar. Carefully pour hot cream mixture into bowl with chocolate. Let stand 1 minute. Whisk until melted and smooth. Chill ganache until thickened and spreadable, about 1 hour.
Carefully invert cake onto large cake plate. Gently remove parchment paper. Spread ganache over top and sides of cake and allow ganache to set, about 1 hour. DO AHEAD: Cake can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before decorating.
Decorate cake with edible flowers. Cut into wedges and serve.
Available at some supermarkets and at farmers' markets. Use only those flowers that have been grown without pesticides.

 inchUgly But Good inch Hazelnut Cookies 
4 large egg whites
pinch of salt
1 1/3 cups sugar
3 1/2 cups (about 14 ounces) whole hazelnuts, finely ground in a food processor
2 cookie sheets or jelly-roll pans lined with parchment or foil

1. Set racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees F.
2. Whip the egg whites and salt in an electric mixer with the whisk on medium speed until they are white and opaque and beginning to hold their shape. Increase the speed to medium high and whip in the sugar 1 tablespoon at a time, continuing to whip the whites until they hold a firm peak. Remove the bowl from the mixer and fold in the ground hazelnuts.
3. Scrape the batter into a medium saucepan and place over low heat. Cook, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, until the mixture is heated through, about 8 minutes.
4. Use 2 spoons to form 3/4-inch cookies. Use one spoon to scoop up some batter and the other to scrape it off the first spoon, rounding it somewhat as you do, and drop the cookies onto the prepared pan, spacing them about 1 inch apart from each other in all directions.
5. Bake the cookies until they are well colored and slightly firm, about 20 to 25 minutes.
6. Cool the cookies on the pan on a rack.
Storage: Store the cookies in a tin or plastic container with a tight-fitting cover.

Raspberry Buttermilk Cake 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 stick unsalted butter, softened
2/3 cup plus 1 1/2 tablespoons sugar, divided
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 large egg
1/2 cup well-shaken buttermilk
1 cup fresh raspberries (about 5 ounces)

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter and flour a 9-inch round cake pan.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt.
Beat butter and 2/3 cup sugar with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes, then beat in vanilla. Add egg and beat well.
At low speed, mix in flour mixture in 3 batches, alternating with buttermilk, beginning and ending with flour, and mixing until just combined.
Spoon batter into cake pan, smoothing top. Scatter raspberries evenly over top and sprinkle with remaining 1 1/2 tablespoons sugar.
Bake until cake is golden and a wooden pick inserted into center comes out clean, 25 to 30 minutes. Cool in pan 10 minutes, then turn out onto a rack and cool to warm, 10 to 15 minutes more. Invert onto a plate.

Strawberry Roulade 
1 pint strawberries
2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon kirsh
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1 cup heavy whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 plain Gênoise Sheet
1/2 cup (about 4 large) egg whites
2/3 cups sugar
Confectioners' sugar for finishing

1 To make the filling, rinse the strawberries. Select 4 or 5 of the best berries to use for decoration and refrigerate them. Hull and slice the remaining berries. Combine the sliced berries with the sugar, kirsch, and lemon juice in a bowl and refrigerate for 1 hour.
2 Drain the berries, reserving the juice. In a medium bowl, whip the cream with the vanilla. Fold in the berries.
3 To assemble, remove the paper from the bottom of the gênoise and place the layer right side up on a clean piece of paper. Moisten the layer with the reserved strawberry juices. Spread with the filling and roll it up, wrapping it tightly in the paper. Place the roll in the freezer on a baking sheet while you prepare the meringue.
4 Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F.
5 Whisk the egg whites and sugar in the bowl of an eclectic mixer, place over a pan of simmering water, and whisk until the egg whites are hot and the sugar is dissolved. Attach to the mixer and beat with the whip attachment on medium speed until cooled.
6 Place the cake roll on a baking sheet and cover with meringue, reserving a little meringue for decoration. Pipe several rosettes of meringue along the top. Dust the meringue with confectioners' sugar.
7 Place the cake on the center rack in the oven to color the meringue, about 1 to 2 minutes; turn the pan several times so the meringue colors evenly. Cool, then chill the roll.
8 Trim the ends of the cake on a diagonal. Slide the roulade onto a platter and decorate with the reserved strawberries.

Beet Bundt Cake 
1/2 cup (120 ml) canola oil
1 1/2 cups (340 g) packed dark brown sugar
2 cups (450 g) puréed cooked (boiled or steamed) red beets (about 3 medium-size beets)
1/2 cup (90 g) nondairy semisweet chocolate chips, melted
1 teaspoon (5 ml) vanilla extract
2 cups (250 g) all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons (9 g) baking powder (look for aluminum-free)
1/4 teaspoon salt
Confectioners' sugar, for dusting

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C, or gas mark 5), and lightly oil a Bundt pan.
In a mixing bowl, cream together oil and brown sugar. Add beets, melted chocolate chips, and vanilla, and mix well.
In a separate bowl, combine flour, baking powder, and salt. Add to wet beet mixture, and stir until just combined.
Pour into prepared Bundt pan, and bake for 45 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted near the center comes out clean.
Cool in pan for 10 minutes before removing to a wire rack. Cool completely. Before serving, dust with confectioners' sugar and top with blueberries, if desired.

Cappuccino Brownies 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, diced
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 large eggs
1 tablespoon instant espresso powder
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup all purpose flour
6 ounces high-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), chopped
5 tablespoons heavy whipping cream
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Fold 16-inch-long piece of foil to 8x16-inch strip; place in 8x8x2-inch metal baking pan, leaving overhang on 2 sides. Repeat with another sheet of foil in opposite direction, lining pan completely. Spray foil with nonstick spray.
Stir butter and chocolate in heavy large saucepan over very low heat until chocolate is melted. Remove from heat; whisk in sugar, then eggs, 1 at a time. Whisk in espresso powder, vanilla, and salt; sift flour over and stir to blend well. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake brownies until puffed and dry-looking and tester inserted into center comes out with some moist batter attached, about 35 minutes; cool completely in pan on rack.
Place white chocolate in medium microwave-safe bowl. Bring cream to simmer in small saucepan. Pour cream over chocolate in bowl. Let stand 30 seconds, then stir until chocolate is melted and smooth. If necessary, microwave on low power in 10-second intervals until white chocolate is melted completely. Chill until ganache is thick but still slightly pourable, about 25 minutes.
Using foil as aid, lift brownies from pan. Turn over onto sheet of parchment paper; peel off foil.
Pour ganache onto center of brownies; spread to edges (some may drip over). Sprinkle with cinnamon. Chill until ganache is set, at least 2 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and keep chilled.
Cut brownies into 4 strips. Cut each strip crosswise into 5 or 6 pieces, or cut each strip into 6 triangles. Arrange brownies on platter and serve.

Peach and Pecan Upside-Down Cake 
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
40 (about) pecan halves (about 3 ounces)
2 medium peaches (about 7 ounces each), peeled, halved, pitted, each half cut into 6 wedges
1 1/2 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1/2 cup pecans
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup whole milk
Vanilla ice cream or sweetened whipped cream
9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides

Melt butter in medium saucepan over medium heat. Add brown sugar; whisk until sugar dissolves, about 1 minute. Pour mixture into 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides; spread evenly over bottom of pan (layer will be thin). Arrange pecan halves, side by side with round sides down, in circle around outer edge of pan bottom. Arrange peach wedges, slightly overlapping, inside circle of pecans, covering pan bottom. Set aside while making cake batter.
Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Combine first 6 ingredients in processor. Blend until nuts are finely ground. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until butter is pale in color, about 4 minutes. Whisk eggs and vanilla in small bowl until well blended. Add egg mixture to butter mixture, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating until well blended after each addition. Add flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with milk in 2 additions, beating just until blended after each addition. Drop batter by large spoonfuls atop pecans and peaches in pan; spread evenly and gently with offset spatula or rubber spatula.
Bake cake until golden brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Transfer cake to rack; cool in pan 25 to 30 minutes (do not cool longer or peach layer may stick to pan). Run small knife around sides of cake to loosen. Place serving platter atop cake pan. Using oven mitts, firmly hold cake pan and platter together and invert cake onto platter. Let cake rest 1 minute, then very slowly lift off pan. If necessary, rearrange any peach wedges or pecans that may have become dislodged. Let cool to room temperature.
Cut cake into wedges. Serve with vanilla ice cream or whipped cream.

Blueberry Jam Sandwich Cookies 
2 cups fresh blueberries (12 ounces)
2 tablespoons powdered fruit pectin
1/2 teaspoon unsalted butter
1 cup sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
3 tablespoons finely grated lemon peel
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 large egg yolks
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
Raw sugar* (for sprinkling)

Combine blueberries, fruit pectin, and butter in large nonstick skillet. Stir constantly over medium-high heat until mixture boils. Add sugar and return to boil, stirring until sugar dissolves. Boil until mixture is reduced to 1 1/3 cups, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat. Transfer mixture to small glass bowl; cover and chill until jam is cold, at least 6 hours (jam will thicken slightly while chilling). DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 week ahead. Keep chilled.
Using electric mixer, beat butter, 1 cup sugar, lemon peel, and salt in large bowl until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add yolks and beat until blended. Add flour in 2 additions, beating just until blended after each addition. Gather dough together; divide in half. Place 1 dough half on sheet of waxed paper or parchment paper. Form dough into 1 1/2-inch-wide square or round log; smooth with dampened fingers. Wrap log in waxed paper. Repeat with second dough half. Chill dough until firm, at least 4 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 400 degrees F. Line 2 large rimmed baking sheets with silicone baking mats, smooth side up, or parchment paper. Cut dough logs into scant 1/4-inch-thick squares or rounds. Arrange on prepared baking sheets, spacing 2 inches apart. Sprinkle half of dough squares or rounds generously with raw sugar (leave remaining plain).
Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until edges are light golden, 10 to 12 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
Just before serving, spread 1 generous teaspoon jam over bottom (flat side) of each plain (not sugared) cookie. Top each with sugared cookie, sugared side up, and serve.
Also called turbinado or demerara sugar; available at most supermarkets and at natural foods stores.

Wheat Biscuit Shortbread 
2 sticks unsalted butter, at room temperature
2/3 cup granulated sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon fine salt
1 1/4 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
1 cup white whole-wheat flour
8 ounces semisweet chocolate

Arrange the racks in upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Line 2 large cookie sheets and with parchment paper or silicone sheets.
In a large bowl, combine the butter, sugar, vanilla and salt at medium-low speed just until smooth. Add the flours and mix until just blended. Divide the dough in half and then shape, without over handling, into 2 disks.
On a lightly floured surface, roll 1 piece of dough out into a 13-inch, 1/4-inch-thick square. Using a ruler and a fluted pastry wheel or a large knife, trim the edges and cut into 2- by 1-inch rectangles. Transfer the cookies to the baking sheets, spacing 1 1/2 inches apart. Reroll the scraps and repeat with the remaining dough. Mark each cookie several times with tines of a fork and then chill the pans in the refrigerator for 10 minutes. Bake cookies for about 17 minutes, until golden and nearly firm in center. Let cool for 5 minutes on baking sheets and transfer to racks to cool completely.
Finely chop semisweet chocolate. Place half of the chocolate in a heatproof bowl set over a saucepan with 1 inch of simmering water and stir until the chocolate is melted and smooth. Add the remaining chocolate to the bowl; remove the bowl from the pot and place on a folded towel. Stir occasionally until chocolate is smooth. Scrape the chocolate into a small bowl. Line a baking sheet with clean parchment or waxed paper. Dip the cookies halfway into the chocolate, let the excess drip off, and then place on the paper-lined sheet; let stand until set and dry, at least 1 hour.

Mile-High Chocolate Cake With Vanilla Buttercream 
1 1/4 cups hot water
3/4 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder (such as Scharffen Berger)
2/3 cup sour cream
2 2/3 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup solid vegetable shortening (preferably nonhydrogenated), room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
3 large eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
5 large egg whites
1 2/3 cups sugar, divided
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
1/3 cup water
1 pound (4 sticks) unsalted butter, diced, room temperature
5 ounces high-quality milk chocolate (such as Lindt), chopped
5 ounces bittersweet chocolate (54% to 60% cacao), chopped
1 1/4 cups heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes, room temperature
Candy thermometer
Instant-read thermometer
Offset spatula

Butter three 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of each pan with parchment paper round; butter parchment. Dust pans with flour; tap out excess. Whisk 11/4 cups hot water, cocoa powder, and sour cream in medium bowl until smooth; set aside until mixture is cool, 20 to 30 minutes.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Sift next 4 ingredients into another medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and shortening in large bowl until well blended and smooth. Add both sugars; beat until light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until well blended after each addition. Mix in vanilla. Add flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with cocoa mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating just until incorporated. Divide batter among prepared pans (about 23/4 cups batter for each) and smooth tops.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, 50 to 55 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 20 minutes. Run knife around sides of cakes to loosen. Invert cakes onto racks and cool completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap in plastic and store at room temperature.
Combine egg whites and 1/3 cup sugar in large bowl of stand mixer fitted with whisk attachment; scrape in seeds from vanilla bean.
Combine remaining 1 1/3 cups sugar and 1/3 cup water in medium saucepan. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Attach candy thermometer to side of pan, making sure that bulb of thermometer is immersed in syrup. Increase heat; boil until temperature registers 238 degrees F to 240 degrees F (soft-ball stage), about 5 minutes. Immediately remove syrup from heat (use within 2 minutes).
Meanwhile, beat egg white mixture on medium speed until very soft peaks form (mixture will be slightly opaque).
Increase mixer speed to high and slowly pour hot syrup down side of bowl into egg white mixture in slow steady stream; beat until meringue forms stiff peaks. Cool meringue in bowl until lukewarm (instant read thermometer will register 100 degrees F), about 30 minutes. Do not beat.
Start beating meringue again on medium speed of stand mixer. Gradually add butter, 2 to 3 tablespoons at a time, beating constantly until absorbed before adding next addition. Continue beating until buttercream is smooth. (If buttercream looks broken or curdled, place mixer bowl with buttercream over medium heat on stove burner and whisk with large whisk for 5 to 10 seconds to warm mixture slightly, then remove from heat and whisk vigorously or attach bowl to stand mixer and beat mixture again on medium speed. Repeat warming and beating buttercream mixture as many times as needed until buttercream is smooth and no longer curdled.)
Using serrated knife, cut each cake in half horizontally, forming 6 cake layers. If necessary, trim any domed tops of cakes to form even layers. Place 1 cake layer on platter. Drop 3/4 cup buttercream by tablespoonfuls over top of cake layer, then spread evenly to edges with offset spatula. Top with second cake layer, then spread 3/4 cup buttercream over. Repeat with 3 more cake layers, spreading 3/4 cup buttercream over each and pressing slightly to adhere. Top with 6th cake layer (do not spread buttercream over top cake layer). Chill cake at least 1 hour.
Combine both chocolates in medium bowl. Bring cream and corn syrup to simmer in heavy saucepan. Pour hot cream mixture over chocolate; let stand 2 minutes. Whisk chocolate mixture until melted and smooth. Add butter; whisk until melted. Chill glaze until slightly thickened and glaze drips thickly when poured slowly from spoon, 30 to 45 minutes.
Spoon glaze around top edge of cake by teaspoonfuls, spacing drips up to 2 inches apart and allowing glaze to drip slowly down sides of cake. Spoon remaining glaze over top center of cake and smooth with offset spatula, covering top completely. Chill cake until glaze sets, at least 1 hour. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Tent with foil and keep chilled. Let cake stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.

Chocolate Chip Flying Saucers 
2 sticks unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 cup granulated sugar
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 teaspoon fine salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup unbleached all-purpose flour
2/3 cup white whole-wheat flour
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips

Arrange the oven racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper or silicone sheets.
In the bowl of an electric mixer, cream the butter and sugars, beating at medium-high speed until fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add the eggs, vanilla, salt and baking soda and beat at medium speed just until the eggs are incorporated, 1 to 2 minutes. Add the flours and mix at low speed just until blended, scraping down the bowl as necessary. Stir in the chocolate chips.
Drop 6 heaping tablespoons of dough on each cookie sheet, spacing the tablespoons of dough evenly apart. Bake for 7 minutes, switch and rotate the pans and bake 5 to 7 minutes more, until the cookies are evenly golden. Let the cookies cool on the pans for a minute or two and then transfer with a spatula to racks to cool completely. Repeat with the remaining dough.

Pignoli Cookies 
1 cup whole wheat pastry flour
1 cup semolina flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/8 teaspoon sea salt
1/4 cup avocado, olive, or flax-sunflower oil
1 cup almond meal (blanched almonds ground into a fine meal)
1/2 cup erythritol (see Note, below)
2 tablespoons brown rice syrup
1 teaspoon almond extract
1/4 cup unsweetened almond milk
1 cup pignoli (pine nuts)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Line a baking sheet with unbleached parchment paper or a silicone baking sheet.
Whisk together flours, baking powder and salt. Combine oil, almond meal, erythritol and syrup in a small saucepan over medium heat. Cook, stirring, until well combined and smooth, about 3 minutes. Remove from heat and whisk in almond extract.
Stir almond mixture into dry ingredients and mix well. Add almond milk and mix to create a soft, sticky dough. With wet hands, form dough into 1 1/2-inch balls. Place pignoli in a shallow dish and roll each cookie around, covering with pignoli. Arrange on baking sheet, allowing space for cookies to spread slightly. Bake for 18 minutes. The cookies will still be soft when they come out of the oven. Immediately remove from baking sheet and transfer to a cooling rack.

Sachertorte 
4 1/2 ounces high-quality bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped
9 tablespoons (1 stick plus 1 tablespoon) unsalted butter, at cool room temperature
1 cup confectioners' sugar
6 large eggs, separated, at room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 cup all-purpose flour (spoon gently into cup and level top)
1 cup Apricot Glaze
Small Batch Chocolate Glaze
Sweetened Whipped Cream , for serving

1. To make the torte: Position a rack in the center of the oven and heat to 400 degrees F. Lightly butter a 9-inch springform pan and line the bottom with a round of parchment or wax paper. Dust the sides of the pan with flour and tap out the excess.
2. In the top part of a double boiler over very hot, but not simmering, water, or in a microwave at medium power, melt the chocolate. Remove from the heat or the oven, and let stand, stirring often, until cool.
3. Beat the butter in the bowl of a eavy-duty standing mixer fitted with the paddle blade on medium-high speed until smooth, about 1 inute. On low speed, beat in the confectioners' sugar. Return the speed to medium-high and beat until light in color and texture, about 2 minutes. Beat in the egg yolks, one at a time, scraping down the sides of the bowl. Beat in the chocolate and vanilla.
4. Beat the egg whites and granulated sugar in a large bowl with a handheld electric mixer on high speed just until they form soft, shiny peaks. Do not overbeat. Stir about one fourth of the beaten whites into the chocolate mixture to lighten it, then fold in the remaining whites, leaving a few visible wisps of whites. Sift half of the flour over the chocolate mixture, and fold in with a large balloon whisk or rubber spatula. Repeat with the remaining flour.
5. Spread evenly in the pan. Bake until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. (The cake will dome in the center.) Cool on a wire rack for 10 minutes. Remove the sides of the pan, and invert the cake onto the rack. Remove the paper and reinvert on another rack to turn right side up. Cool completely.
6. To assemble: Using a long serrated knife, trim the top of the cake to make it level. Cut the cake horizontally into two equal layers. Place one cake layer on an 8-inch cardboard round. Brush the top of the cake layer with the apricot glaze. Place the second cake layer on top and brush again. Brush the top and sides of the cake with the remaining glaze. Transfer the cake to a wire rack placed over a jelly-roll pan lined with waxed paper. Let cool until the glaze is set.
7. Make the chocolate glaze (it must be freshly made and warm). Pour all of the warm chocolate glaze on top of the cake. Using a metal offset spatula, gently smooth the glaze over the cake, allowing it to run down the sides, being sure that the glaze completely coats the cake (patch any bare spots with the spatula and the icing that has dripped). Cool until the glaze is barely set, then transfer the cake to a serving plate. Refrigerate until the glaze is completely set, at least 1 hour. Remove the cake from the refrigerator about 1 hour before serving.
8. To serve, slice with a sharp knife dipped into hot water. Serve with a large dollop of whipped cream on the side.
The cake can be prepared up to 2 days ahead and stored in an airtight cake container at room temperature.

Meyer Lemon Cake with Lavender Cream 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, for brushing pan
5 large eggs, separated
3/4 cup sugar, divided
3/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1 tablespoon grated Meyer lemon zest plus 3 tablespoons Meyer lemon juice (see Cooks' note, below)
3 tablespoons Meyer lemon juice
1 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon grated Meyer lemon zest plus 3/4 cup Meyer lemon juice
3/4 cup Meyer lemon juice
1 large egg yolk
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
1 1/2 cups heavy cream
3 tablespoons mild honey
1/2 tablespoon dried lavender blossoms
Equipment: an 8-inch springform pan
Garnish: confectioners sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F with rack in middle.
Invert bottom of spring form pan and lock on side. Brush pan with melted butter, then chill 2 minutes to set. Line bottom of pan with a round of parchment paper, then brush pan and parchment with another layer of melted butter and chill 2 minutes more. Dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Beat together yolks and 1/2 cup sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until pale and thick, about 3 minutes. At medium speed, beat in oil and lemon zest and juice until just combined. Sift in flour and mix at low speed until just combined.
Beat whites with salt in another large bowl with cleaned beaters at medium-high speed until foamy, then add remaining 1/4 cup sugar a little at a time, beating, and continue to beat until whites just hold soft peaks. Gently fold one third of whites into yolk mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Transfer batter to springform pan, smoothing top, and gently rap against counter once or twice to eliminate any air bubbles. Bake until golden brown (top will crack slightly) and a wooden pick inserted in center of cake comes out clean, 40 to 50 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes, then remove side of pan and cool cake to room temperature, about 1 hour (sides will cave in a little).
Whisk together sugar, flour, and salt in a small heavy saucepan, then add lemon juice in a slow stream, whisking until combined. Bring to a boil, whisking constantly, then simmer, whisking, until thickened, about 3 minutes. Remove from heat.
Whisk yolk in a small bowl, then add about one fourth of lemon-juice mixture, whisking vigorously. Whisk into remaining lemon-juice mixture and gently boil, whisking, 1 minute. Remove from heat and stir in butter and zest. Transfer filling to a bowl and cover surface with buttered parchment paper. Chill until cool, at least 30 minutes.
Bring cream, honey, and lavender blossoms just to a boil in a small saucepan, then remove from heat and let steep, covered, 30 minutes. Strain through a fine-mesh sieve into a bowl, discarding solids, and chill lavender cream, covered, until cold.
Invert cake and discard parchment. Cut cake horizontally into 3 even layers with a long serrated knife. Transfer 1 layer, cut side up, to a cake plate. Lightly whisk filling to loosen, then spread half of filling evenly over cake layer on plate, leaving a 1/2-inch border around edge. Place a second cake layer over filling and spread with remaining filling in same manner. Top with remaining cake layer, cut side down, pressing gently so that filling is spread to edge of cake.
Just before serving, beat lavender cream with a whisk until it is thickened and barely holds soft peaks. Dust cake with confectioners sugar and serve with lavender cream.

Lemon-Glazed Butter Cake 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
Rounded 1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon whole milk
1 tablespoon grated lemon zest
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup granulated sugar
3 large eggs at room temperature 30 minutes
1 cup confectioners sugar
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
Garnish: confectioners sugar for dusting

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter and flour an 8-by 2-inch round cake pan.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt. Stir together milk, zest, and vanilla.
Beat together butter and granulated sugar with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition.
At low speed, mix in flour mixture in 3 batches, alternating with milk mixture, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing until each addition is just incorporated.
Pour batter into cake pan and smooth top, then rap gently on counter to release any air bubbles. Bake until golden and a wooden pick inserted into center of cake comes out clean, 35 to 40 minutes. Cool in pan 10 minutes.
Whisk together confectioners sugar and lemon juice until smooth.
Turn out cake onto a rack set over a baking sheet, then reinvert. Brush top and side of cake with all of glaze. Cool completely.

Brownie-Bottom Lemon Cheesecake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
6 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 ounces bittersweet chocolate (54% to 60% cacao), chopped
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
5 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
13/4 cups sugar
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 tablespoon finely grated lemon peel
4 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
5 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
1/2 cup sour cream
1/4 cup heavy whipping cream
1 cup sour cream
Bittersweet chocolate curls or shavings
1 lemon, halved lengthwise, thinly sliced crosswise
9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch- to 3-inch-high sides
Offset spatula

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray inside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-to 3-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Whisk flour, cocoa, and salt in small bowl; set aside. Combine chocolate and butter in medium metal bowl; place bowl over saucepan of simmering water and stir until melted and smooth. Remove bowl from over water. Add both sugars to chocolate mixture and whisk until blended. Let cool until mixture is barely lukewarm, about 10 minutes. Whisk egg and vanilla into chocolate mixture. Fold flour mixture into chocolate mixture. Spread brownie batter evenly over bottom of prepared pan.
Bake brownie crust until top looks slightly cracked and tester inserted into center comes out with some moist crumbs attached, about 20 minutes. Transfer pan to rack; cool crust to room temperature, about 30 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Place pan with cooled crust on rimmed baking sheet. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until smooth. Add sugar, flour, lemon peel, and lemon juice; beat until smooth. Add eggs and yolks, 1 at a time, beating just until incorporated after each addition. Beat in 1/2 cup sour cream and whipping cream. Pour filling over brownie crust in pan; smooth top.
Bake cake until puffed, light golden, and set around edges (center will still move slightly when pan is gently shaken), about 1 hour 20 minutes. Remove cake from oven. Maintain oven temperature.
Spoon 1 cup sour cream in dollops over top of cake, then spread evenly over top with offset spatula. Return cake to oven and bake 5 minutes. Run small sharp knife around sides of cake to loosen. Place pan with cake directly in refrigerator and chill uncovered overnight (cake may sink in center). DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.
Remove pan sides from cake. Run thin sharp knife between pan bottom and crust to loosen. Using 2 metal spatulas as aid, transfer cake to platter. Garnish top edge of cake with chocolate curls and lemon slices.

Classic Pound Cake 
1/2 pound (2 sticks) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
5 large eggs, at room temperature
2 cups cake flour (spoon flour into dry-measure cup and level off), sifted after measuring
One 9 x 5 x 3-inch loaf pan, buttered and bottom lined with parchment or foil

1 Set rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 325 degrees.
2 Place the butter and sugar in the bowl of a heavy-duty mixer and beat on medium speed with the paddle attachment until very light, about 5 minutes. Beat in the vanilla. One at a time, beat in 3 of the eggs, beating until smooth after each addition.
3 Reduce the mixer speed to low and beat in one-third of the four, then another egg, beating until smooth after each addition. Stop the mixer occasionally to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula. Beat in another third of the flour, then, after the flour has been absorbed, beat in the final egg. Scrape again and beat in the last of the four.
4 Use the rubber spatula to give a final mix to the batter, then scrape it into the prepared pan and smooth the top.
5 Bake for about 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 hours, or until the cake is well risen, cracked on top, and well-colored and a toothpick inserted into the center emerges dry.
6 Cool the cake in the pan for a few minutes, then unmold it onto a rack and turn right side up to finish cooling.
Vanilla Bean Pound Cake: Omit the vanilla extract. Split a vanilla bean lengthwise and scrape out the seeds with the point of a paring knife. Add the vanilla seeds to the butter and sugar mixture. The vanilla flavor will be stronger than a cake made with extract, and the visible vanilla seeds make a strong  inchvanilla statement. inch
Mace Pound Cake: Add 1/4 teaspoon ground mace to the flour.
Hint of Lemon Pound cake: Add the finely grated zest of a large lemon to Classic Pound Cake or Vanilla Bean Pound Cake.

Classic White Cake Layers 
2 cups all-purpose flour (spoon flour into dry-measure cup and level off)
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
12 tablespoons (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
6 large egg whites
3/4 cup milk
Two 9-inch round cake pans, buttered and bottoms lined with buttered parchment or wax paper
N/A parchment or wax paper

1 Position a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees.
2 Combine the flour, baking powder, and salt in a bowl, mixing well.
3 Place the butter and sugar in the bowl of a heavy-duty mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and beat on medium speed for about 5 minutes, or until very soft and light. Beat in the vanilla.
4 Whisk together the egg whites and milk by hand in a medium mixing bowl until just combined.
5 Reduce the mixer speed to low and beat in one-quarter of the flour mixture, then one-third of the milk mixture, stopping and scraping down the bowl and beater after each addition. Beat in another quarter of the flour, then another third of the milk mixture. Scrape again. Repeat with another quarter of the flour and the remaining milk mixture; scrape. Finally, beat in the remaining flour mixture.
6 Scrape the bowl well with a large rubber spatula. Pour the batter into the prepared pans and smooth the tops.
7 Bake the layers for about 30 to 35 minutes, until they are well risen and firm and a toothpick inserted in the center emerges clean. Cool the layers in the pans on racks for 5 minutes, then unmold onto racks to finish cooling right side up.

Candied-Fennel-Topped Lemon Cake 
1 small fennel bulb
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup water
3 (3-inch) strips lemon zest, thinly sliced
1 teaspoon fennel seeds
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon zest
3/4 cup well-shaken buttermilk
Equipment: a 9-by 2-inch round cake pan; an adjustable-blade slicer
Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream

Lightly oil pan and line bottom and side with a large round of wax paper, pleating sides and trimming to fit. Lightly oil paper. Line side with a 2-inch-wide strip of wax paper long enough to wrap around inside of pan to cover pleats, then lightly oil.
Cut fennel bulb lengthwise with slicer into enough 1/4-inch-thick slices (about 9) to cover bottom of cake pan.
Cover fennel with cold water in a medium saucepan and bring to a boil. Drain fennel and set aside. Add sugar, water (3/4 cup), zest, and fennel seeds to saucepan and bring to a simmer, stirring until sugar has dissolved. Add fennel slices and very gently simmer until tender and translucent and liquid is syrupy, about 40 minutes. Lift fennel slices out with a fork and arrange decoratively in bottom of cake pan. If you have more than 1/3 cup syrup, boil to reduce; if less, add water. Cool syrup slightly, then pour (through a fine-mesh sieve if desired) over fennel.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in zest.
At low speed, mix in flour mixture in 3 batches, alternating with buttermilk, beginning and ending with flour mixture, and mixing until just combined. Gently spoon batter over topping, spreading evenly.
Bake until cake is golden-brown and a wooden pick inserted into center of cake comes out clean, 25 to 30 minutes. Cool cake in pan 15 minutes, then invert onto a plate and continue to cool. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Plain Genoise 
3 large eggs
3 large egg yolks
Pinch of salt
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup cake flour (spoon flour into dry-measure cup and level off)
1/4 cup cornstarch
One 9-inch round cake pan or 9-inch springform pan, buttered and bottom lined with buttered parchment or wax paper; a strainer or sifter

1 Set a rack in the middle level of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees.
2 Half-fill a medium saucepan with water and bring it to a boil over high heat. Lower the heat so the water is simmering.
3 Whisk the eggs, yolks, salt, and sugar together in the bowl of a heavy-duty mixer. Place over the pan of simmering water and whisk gently until the mixture is just lukewarm, about 100 degrees (test with your finger). Attach the bowl to the mixer and, with the whisk attachment, whip on medium-high speed until the egg mixture is cooled (touch the outside of the bowl to tell) and tripled in volume. The egg foam will be thick and will form a slowly dissolving ribbon falling back onto the bowl of whipped eggs when the whisk is lifted.
4 While the eggs are whipping, stir together the flour and cornstarch.
5 Sift one-third of the flour mixture over the beaten eggs. Use a rubber spatula to fold in the flour mixture, making sure to scrape all the way to the bottom of the bowl on every pass through the batter to prevent the flour mixture from accumulating there and making lumps. Repeat with another third of the flour mixture and finally with the remainder.
6 Scrape the batter into the prepared pan and smooth the top.
7 Bake the gênoise for about 25 minutes, or until well risen, deep gold, and firm to the touch.
8 Immediately use a small pairing knife to loosen the cake from the sides of the pan. Invert the cake onto a rack, then reinvert onto another rack and let the cake cool right side up on the paper. Remove the paper when the cake is cool.
Chocolate Genoise: Reduce the bake flour to 1/3 cup, increase the cornstarch to 1/3 cup, and add 1/4 cup alkalized (Dutch-process) cocoa powder to the flour and cornstarch mixture, sift.
Genoise Sheet: Bake either the plain or chocolate batter in a 10 x 15-inch jelly roll pan that has been buttered and lined with buttered parchment at 400 degrees for about 10 to 12 minutes. Make sure the cake doesn't overbake and become to dry, especially if it is tot be rolled. (Makes on 10 x 15-inch layer.)

Chocolate-Chocolate Chip Cookie and Strawberry Gelato Sandwiches 
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
2 cups semisweet chocolate chips
Fresh Strawberry Gelato , slightly softened

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line 2 large rimmed baking sheets with parchment. Sift first 4 ingredients into bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in both sugars, then eggs, 1 at a time. Beat in extracts, then flour mixture. Fold in chocolate chips. Drop batter by heaping tablespoonfuls onto prepared sheets, spacing mounds 2 to 3 inches apart. Using moist fingertips, flatten mounds to 3/4-inch thickness.
Bake cookies 5 minutes. Reverse sheets. Bake until cookies are puffed and dry-looking but soft to touch, about 5 minutes. Cool completely. Freeze on sheets 15 minutes.
Spoon 1/3 cup gelato onto flat side of 1 cookie. Top with second cookie, flat side down; press together. Wrap and freeze. Repeat with remaining gelato and cookies. DO AHEAD: Keep frozen up to 2 days.

Vanilla Bean-Coconut Cupcakes with Coconut Frosting 
2 13-to 14-ounce cans unsweetened coconut milk* (preferably organic)
2 cups all purpose flour
2 1/4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/3 cups sugar
3 large eggs
Seeds scraped from 1 split vanilla bean or 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup reduced coconut milk (see above), room temperature
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1/3 cup reduced coconut milk (see above), room temperature
Seeds scraped from 1 split vanilla bean or 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups sweetened flaked coconut, lightly toasted (for garnish)

Bring coconut milk to boil in large deep saucepan over medium-high heat (coconut milk will boil up high in pan). Reduce heat to mediumlow; boil until reduced to 1 1/2 cups, stirring occasionally, 25 to 30 minutes. Remove from heat; cool completely. Transfer to small bowl. Cover; chill (coconut milk will settle slightly as it cools). DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.
Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line eighteen 1/3-cup muffin cups with paper liners. Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth. Add sugar; beat on medium-high speed until well blended, about 2 minutes. Add 2 eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition and occasionally scraping down sides of bowl. Beat in seeds from vanilla bean and remaining egg. Add half of flour mixture; mix on low speed just until blended. Add 1 cup reduced coconut milk; mix just until blended. Add remaining flour mixture; mix on low speed just until blended. Divide batter among muffin cups. Bake cupcakes until tops spring back when gently touched and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Transfer cupcakes in pans to rack; cool 10 minutes. Carefully remove cupcakes from pans and cool completely on rack.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth. Add sugar, 1/3 cup reduced coconut milk, seeds from vanilla bean, and salt. Beat on medium-low speed until blended, scraping down sides of bowl. Increase to mediumhigh and beat until light and fluffy.
Using pastry bag fitted with large star tip, pipe frosting onto cooled cupcakes. (Alternatively, top each cupcake with 2 tablespoons frosting. Using small offset spatula, swirl frosting over top of cupcakes, leaving 1/2-inch plain border.) Sprinkle with coconut. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Store in airtight containers; chill. Bring to room temperature before serving.
Available at many supermarkets and at Indian, Southeast Asian, and Latin markets.

Cornmeal Cookies 
1 cup yellow cornmeal (not stone-ground)
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
7 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup sugar
3/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 large egg plus 1 large egg yolk

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle.
Whisk together cornmeal, flour, and salt. Beat butter, sugar, and vanilla with an electric mixer at medium speed, scraping down side of bowl occasionally, until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Beat in egg and yolk until combined well. Reduce speed to low and add cornmeal mixture in a slow stream, mixing until just combined. Form dough into a 5-inch square and chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, about 30 minutes.
Roll out dough on a lightly floured surface with a lightly floured rolling pin into a 7-inch square (1/2 inch thick). Score dough in one direction with tines of a fork. Following scored marks, cut into 8 equal strips, then cut strips in half to form rectangles.
Bake on an ungreased baking sheet until bottoms of cookies are pale golden, 15 to 18 minutes. Transfer to a rack to cool completely, about 1 hour.

Orange Angel Food Cake with Caramel Sauce and Tropical-Fruit Compote 
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup water
1 cup heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
3/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
Pinch of salt
1 1/4 cups powdered sugar
1 cup cake flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/3 cups egg whites (about 9 large)
1 1/2 teaspoons cream of tartar
1 cup superfine sugar
1 tablespoon finely grated orange peel
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 blood oranges
3 ripe passion fruits
1 kiwi, peeled, quartered lengthwise, then cut crosswise into 1/2-inch slices
1 cup 1/2-inch cubes mango
1/2 cup 1/2-inch cubes pineapple
1 to 2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon chopped fresh mint
Pinch of salt

Combine sugar and 1/3 cup water in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to medium-high; boil without stirring until syrup is deep amber, occasionally brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush and swirling pan, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat. Carefully add cream (mixture will bubble vigorously). Place pan over low heat; stir until caramel bits dissolve and sauce is smooth. Remove from heat; add butter, cardamom, and pinch of salt. Stir until butter melts. Cool.DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 week ahead. Cover; chill. Bring to room temperature or rewarm over low heat before using.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Sift powdered sugar, flour, and salt 3 times. Place in medium bowl.
Using electric mixer, beat egg whites in large bowl until foamy. Add cream of tartar; beat until whites are opaque and soft peaks form. Gradually add superfine sugar, beating until whites are thick and shiny and fluffy peaks form (peaks should droop over gently; do not overbeat). Add orange peel and vanilla; beat just until blended. Sift 1/4 of flour mixture over whites. Using large rubber spatula, gently fold flour mixture into whites. Repeat with remaining flour mixture in 3 more additions. Transfer batter to ungreased 10-inch-diameter angel food cake pan with removable bottom and 4-inch-high sides (do not use nonstick pan); smooth top.
Bake cake until golden and springy to touch, about 50 minutes. Immediately invert pan onto work surface if pan has feet, or invert center tube of pan onto neck of bottle or funnel. Cool cake completely.
Gently tap bottom edge of pan on work surface while rotating pan until cake loosens. Transfer to platter. DO AHEAD: Can be made 8 hours ahead. Cover with cake dome; let stand at room temperature.
Cut all peel and white pith from oranges. Using small sharp knife and working over bowl to catch juices, cut between membranes to release orange segments into bowl. Squeeze remaining juice from membranes into bowl. If orange segments are large, cut each in half or thirds. Cut passion fruits in half; scoop out pulp and add to orange segments. Add remaining fruits, sugar, mint, and pinch of salt. Toss gently to combine. DO HEAD: an be made 2 hours ahead. Cover and chill.
Slice cake; transfer to plates. Spoon compote alongside; top with caramel.

Lemon Cornmeal Cake with Lemon Glaze and Crushed-Blueberry Sauce 
1 1/2 cups (packed) powdered sugar, sifted
2 tablespoons (or more) fresh lemon Juice
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/3 cup yellow cornmeal
3/4 cup sugar
3 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup buttermilk
2 large eggs
1 tablespoon finely grated lemon peel
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled
Crushed-Blueberry Sauce

Combine powdered sugar and 2 tablespoons lemon juice in small bowl. Stir with spoon until smooth and paste-like, adding more lemon juice by 1/2 teaspoonfuls if glaze is too thick to spread. Set aside.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides; line bottom with parchment. Combine flour, cornmeal, sugar, baking powder, and salt in large bowl; whisk to blend. Whisk buttermilk, eggs, lemon peel, and vanilla in small bowl. Pour buttermilk mixture and melted butter into flour mixture. Using rubber spatula, gently fold liquids into flour mixture until just blended (do not stir). Scrape batter into pan; spread evenly.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean and cake pulls away from sides of pan, about 30 minutes.
Immediately run knife around sides of cake. Place rack atop cake in pan. Using oven mitts, hold pan and rack firmly together and invert cake onto rack. Remove pan from cake. Place another rack on bottom of cake; invert 1 more time so that cake is top side up. Stir glaze until blended. While cake is still very hot, drop glaze by tablespoonfuls onto cake; spread to within 1/2 inch of edge (some glaze may drip down sides of cake). Cool completely. Serve with Crushed-Blueberry Sauce.

Coffee-Chocolate Layer Cake with Mocha-Mascarpone Frosting 
2 cups cake flour
3/4 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
3 large eggs
11/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup buttermilk
4 teaspoons instant espresso powder dissolved in 3/4 cup hot water
1/3 cup natural unsweetened cocoa powder
1 tablespoon instant espresso powder
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy whipping cream, divided
1 1/3 cups sugar
2 8-ounce containers chilled mascarpone cheese*
Bittersweet chocolate curls (optional)

Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. Generously butter two 9-inch cake pans with 2-inch-high sides; dust with flour, tapping out any excess. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper.
Sift 2 cups cake flour, cocoa, baking soda, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth. Add brown sugar and beat until well blended, about 2 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in vanilla. Add flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with buttermilk in 2 additions, beating just until blended after each addition. Gradually add hot espresso-water mixture, beating just until smooth.
Divide batter between pans; smooth tops. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on rack 15 minutes. Run small knife around sides of pans to loosen cakes. Invert cakes onto racks; lift pans off cakes and remove parchment. Place wire rack atop each cake; invert again so top side is up. Cool completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap each cake in plastic and store at room temperature.
Sift cocoa powder into large bowl; add espresso powder. Bring 1 cup cream to boil in small saucepan. Slowly pour cream over cocoa mixture, whisking until cocoa is completely dissolved, about 1 minute. Add 1/2 cup cream and sugar; stir until sugar dissolves. Chill until cold, at least 2 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; keep chilled.
Add mascarpone to chilled cocoa mixture. Using electric mixer, beat on low speed until blended and smooth. Increase speed to medium-high; beat until mixture is thick and medium-firm peaks form when beaters are lifted, about 2 minutes (do not overbeat or mixture will curdle).
Using pastry brush, brush off crumbs from cakes. Place 1 cake layer, top side up, on platter. Spoon 13/4 cups frosting in dollops over top of cake. Using offset spatula, spread frosting to edges. Top with second cake layer, top side up, pressing to adhere. Spread thin layer of frosting over top and sides of cake. Chill 10 minutes. Using offset spatula, spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake, swirling decoratively. Top with chocolate curls, if desired. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; chill. Let stand at room temperature 20 minutes before serving.
*An Italian cream cheese; sold at many supermarkets and at Italian markets.

Key Lime Coconut Cake 
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups granulated sugar
1 tablespoon grated Key lime zest
2 large eggs
1 3/4 cups self-rising flour
3/4 cup whole milk
1/4 cup fresh Key lime juice, divided
1 cup confectioners sugar
1 tablespoon rum (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Generously butter a 9- by 2-inch round cake pan and line bottom with a round of parchment paper.
Toast coconut in a small baking pan in oven, stirring once or twice, until golden, 8 to 12 minutes. Cool. Leave oven on.
Beat together butter, granulated sugar, and zest with an electric mixer until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Stir together flour and 1/2 cup coconut (reserve remainder for topping). Stir together milk and 2 tablespoons lime juice. At low speed, mix flour and milk mixtures into egg mixture alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour.
Spoon batter into pan and smooth top. Bake until golden and a wooden pick inserted into center comes out clean, 40 to 45 minutes. Cool to warm, then turn out of pan and discard parchment.
Whisk together confectioners sugar, remaining 2 tablespoons lime juice, and rum (if using) and pour over cake. Sprinkle with remaining coconut.

Porterfield Pumpkin Bundt with Snow White Glaze 
3 1/3 cups sifted all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons ground nutmeg
3/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice or mace
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
1 1/4 cups dark brown sugar, packed
1 cup canola or light olive oil
5 large eggs, at room temperature
2 cups canned unsweetened pumpkin
2/3 cup orange juice or milk (or buttermilk if using)
1 1/2 cups sifted confectioners' sugar
2 tablespoons honey
Scant pinch of salt
2 to 3 drops fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 to 3 tablespoons milk or cream, or as needed
Garnish: 1/4 cups chopped walnuts, optional
Pan Preparation: Generously coat the pan with butter-flavor nonstick vegetable spray or solid shortening, dust with flour, and tap out the excess flour.
A 9 1/2- to 10-inch (10- to 12-cup) Bundt or plain tube pan; baking parchment, wax paper, or aluminum foil; sifter; foil-covered 10-inch cardboard cake disk or flat plate; wooden skewer or cake tester

Position rack in lower third of oven. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and bake 65 to 70 minutes. Prepare the pan as directed.
In a medium bowl, whisk together the sifted flour, baking powder (if using), baking soda, salt and spices. Set aside.
Add the granulated sugar to the large bowl of an electric mixer and crumble in the dark brown sugar, breaking up any clumps with your fingers. Add the oil and 2 eggs and beat until blended, then beat in the remaining eggs and the pumpkin. Scrape down the bowl and beater.
With the mixer on the lowest speed, alternately add the juice or milk (or buttermilk if using) and the dry ingredients. When everything is blended, scrape down the bowl, then beat a few seconds longer until the batter is smooth and creamy.
Scoop the batter into the prepared pan. Bake for 65 to 70 minutes (or for the time indicated for your altitude in the chart) or until the cake has risen, is springy to the touch and is cracked on top, and a cake tester inserted in the center comes out dry. Cool the cake in its pan on a rack for 20 to 25 minutes.
Slide a knife around the pan sides and the top of the tube to release the cake. Top the cake with a foil-covered cardboard cake disk or a flat plate, invert, and lift off the pan. Peel off the paper, if you used it. Cool the cake completely.
Whisk together all the ingredients until smooth and creamy. Add a drop more of milk if necessary. The glaze should have a soft, just slightly runny (but not liquefied) consistency. Use the glaze as soon as it is prepared.
Spread the glaze on the top of the cake, letting it drip down the sides. While the glaze is still soft, sprinkle on the nuts, if desired. The glaze hardens as it dries.

Individual Grape and Vin Santo Cakes 
1 1/2 cups plus 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour, divided
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
2/3 cup plus 2 tablespoons granulated sugar, divided
2 large eggs
1 tablespoon grated orange zest
2/3 cup Vin Santo or other sweet wine
1 1/4 cups seedless red grapes (7 ounces)
a jumbo/Texas muffin pan with 6 large (6-to 8-oz) cups (see cooks' note, below)
confectioners sugar

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F with rack in middle. Generously butter muffin cups and dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Whisk together 1 1/2 cups flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt.
Beat butter with 2/3 cup granulated sugar using an electric mixer at medium speed until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in zest.
Add flour mixture in 2 batches alternately with wine, beginning and ending with flour and mixing until just incorporated.
Toss grapes with remaining tablespoon flour, then fold into batter.
Divide batter among muffin cups. Sprinkle with remaining 2 tablespoons granulated sugar. Bake until golden and springy to the touch, 18 to 20 minutes. Cool in pan 5 minutes, then loosen with a knife and remove. Cool to warm, 5 to 10 minutes more.

Coconut Angel Food Cake 
1 1/4 cups egg whites (from about 9 large eggs), at room temperature
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 cup superfine sugar
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1 cup sifted cake flour
1/3 cup dry unsweetened shredded coconut
1/3 cup fresh coconut shavings
1 bag (12 ounces) cranberries, fresh or frozen and thawed
2/3 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon grated orange zest
2/3 cup fresh orange juice
2 tablespoons orange-flavored liqueur
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon

Heat oven to 325 degrees F. Beat egg whites and salt in a bowl with an electric mixer on medium until frothy, about 2 minutes. Add cream of tartar. Beat until soft peaks form, about 5 minutes. Increase speed to high. Add 1/2 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, until whites form soft, glossy peaks. Beat in vanilla and lemon juice. In another bowl, mix remaining 1/2 cup sugar with flour. Sift 1/2 sugar-flour mixture over egg whites; gently but thoroughly fold into batter using a large spatula. Repeat twice with remaining sugar-flour mixture. Fold in dry coconut in 2 batches. Scrape batter into an ungreased 10-inch angel food tube pan with a removable bottom. Smooth top into even layer. Bake 35 minutes or until top is lightly browned and cake springs back when you press it. Turn pan upside down and rest on the neck of a glass bottle to cool. Run a knife against insides of pan to loosen cake; remove pan. Loosen cake from bottom of pan; invert onto a plate. Cover with plastic wrap. Store at room temperature or in the refrigerator.
Boil all ingredients in a medium saucepan 1 minute, until lightly thickened. Let cool. Cover; refrigerate 1 hour. Before serving, sprinkle top of cake with coconut shavings. Serve slices with 3 tablespoons sauce.

Trout Dale Oatmeal-Raisin Cookies 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 pound (2 sticks) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup dark brown sugar, packed
2 large eggs at room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 cups old-fashioned rolled oats
1 cup (6 ounces) raisins
Pan Preparation: Line the cookie sheets with baking parchment or nonstick mats or coat with butter or nonstick vegetable spray.
Cookie sheets (not insulated); baking parchment or Silpat or other nonstick baking mats (optional); flat paddle aattachment for electric mixer (optional)

Divide oven into thirds and preheat to 350 degrees F. Bake 12 to 16 minutes. Prepare the cookie sheets as directed.
In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, baking soda, salt and cinnamon.
In a large bowl, using a sturdy spoon, or in the bowl of an electric mixer, preferably with a paddle attachment, beat the butter until soft and creamy, then beat in both sugars. Scrape down the bowl and beater, if using, and beat until smooth. Beat in the eggs and vanilla and scrape down the bowl again.
Stirring slowly, or with the mixer on the lowest speed, gradually work in the flour mixture, then the oats and raisins. The dough will feel very stiff. (You can make the dough ahead, cover, and refrigerate for several hours.)
Drop the dough onto the prepared cookie sheets by the heaping tablespoon, placing the cookies about 2 inches apart. Bake 12 to 16 minutes (or for the time indicated for your altitude in the chart), or until the cookies are golden brown; the longer they bake, the crisper they will be.
Cool the cookies on a wire rack. If the cookies were baked on parchment or a baking mat, simply slide it off the cookie sheet onto the wire rack to cool. When the cookies are completely cool, store them in an airtight container.

Daredevil's Food Cake with Mocha Buttercream Icing 
2 1/4 cups sifted all-purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sifted natural cocoa, such as Hershey's regular
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 large eggs, at room temperature
1 1/2 cups buttermilk
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, at room temperature
6 cups sifted confectioners' sugar, or more as needed
1/3 cup sifted unsweetened natural cocoa, such as Hershey's regular
5 to 6 tablespoons extra-strength coffee or espresso (or 1 tablespoon instant coffee powder dissolved in 1/2 cup hot water)
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Pan Preparation: Generously coat the pan(s) with solid shortening, line with baking parchment or wax paper (for a tube or Bundt pan, cut a paper or foil ring), grease the liner, and dust with sifted cocoa; tap out the excess cocoa.
Two 8 by 1 1/2-inch round cake pans or 9- to 9 1/2-inch (6 1/2 to 8-cup) tube or Bundt pan; baking parchment, wax paper, or foil; 1 or 2 foil-covered 8- or 9- or 10-inch cardboard cake disks or flat plates; wooden skewer or cake tester.

Position rack in center of oven. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Bake 30 minutes for layers, 38 to 40 minutes for tube cake. Prepare the pan(s) as directed.
In a medium bowl, whisk together the flour, baking soda, salt and cocoa. Set aside.
In the large bowl of an electric mixer, cream together the butter and sugar for 3 to 4 minutes, until very well blended. Scrape down the bowl and beater. Beat in the vanilla and eggs and scrape down the bowl and beater again.
With the mixer on the lowest speed, alternately add the flour mixture and the buttermilk. Once the ingredients are blended together, increase the speed and whip for about 30 seconds (no longer, because at high altitudes you don't want to incorporate excess air).
Divide the batter between the two pans or scrape it all into the tube pan. Bake 30 minutes for layers, 38 to 40 minutes for tube cake (or for the time indicated for your altitude in the chart), or until the cake top feels springy to the touch and a cake tester inserted in the center comes out clean. Cool in the pan(s) on a wire rack for 10 to 15 minutes.
Run a knife between the layers and the pan sides to release them, or run the tip of a knife around the pan sides and the top of the tube to loosen the cake. Top each layer, or the tube pan, with a foil-covered cardboard cake disk or flat plate, invert, and give a sharp downward shake to release the cake. Remove the pan and peel off the parchment. Cool completely.
In a food processor or the large bowl of an electric mixer, preferably with the paddle attachment, process or beat the butter until soft. Add 2 cups of the sifted sugar and beat until smooth. Scrape down the bowl and blade or beaters. Add the remaining 4 cups sugar, plus cocoa, 5 tablespoons coffee, and vanilla, and process or beat until completely smooth and creamy. Add more sugar or coffee if necessary to bring the icing to spreading consistency. (The icing can be made a day in advance and refrigerated, covered; bring to room temperature and beat until smooth before using.)
Fill the layers and frost with the buttercream, or dust the tube cake lightly with cocoa or confectioners' sugar (or frost as desired).

Cardamom Vanilla Pound Cake 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground cardamom
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 1/4 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1 3/4 cups granulated sugar
2 vanilla beans, halved lengthwise
4 large eggs
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 cup whole milk
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy cream
2 1/2 tablespoons confectioners sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
Equipment: a 12-cup kugelhopf or bundt pan; a stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Generously butter pan and dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Whisk together flour, cardamom, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Beat together butter and granulated sugar in mixer at medium speed, scraping side of bowl occasionally, until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Scrape seeds from vanilla beans with tip of a paring knife into butter mixture, reserving pods for another use, and beat until combined well, about 1 minute. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in lemon juice until combined well. At low speed, add flour mixture and milk alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture, mixing until just combined.
Spoon batter into pan, smoothing top. Gently rap pan on counter to eliminate air bubbles.
Bake until a wooden skewer inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool in pan 1 hour, then invert onto a rack and cool completely, about 1 hour more.
Beat cream with confectioners sugar and vanilla extract using whisk attachment of mixer until it just holds stiff peaks. Serve cake with whipped vanilla cream.

Double-Ginger Sour Cream and Bundt Cake with Ginger-Infused Strawberries 
Softened butter (for brushing pan)
1/2 cup raw sugar*
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
4 teaspoons ground ginger
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups sugar
4 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
1 cup chopped crystallized ginger
1 2-inch piece fresh ginger, peeled, very thinly sliced
2/3 cup water
1/2 cup sugar
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
2 quarts fresh strawberries, hulled, halved (about 8 cups)
Sliced fresh mint leaves (optional)

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Brush softened butter generously all over inside of 12-cup Bundt pan. Sprinkle raw sugar over butter in pan, tilting pan to coat completely.
Whisk flour, ground ginger, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat 1 cup butter in large bowl until smooth. Add 2 cups sugar; beat on medium-high speed until blended, about 2 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in 1 egg yolk and vanilla, stopping to scrape down bowl as needed. Add flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with sour cream in 2 additions, beating on low speed just until blended after each addition. Mix in crystallized ginger. Spread batter in pan, being careful not to dislodge raw sugar.
Bake cake until top is light brown and tester inserted near center comes out with a few small crumbs attached, about 55 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool in pan 15 minutes. Gently tap bottom edge of pan on work surface while rotating pan until cake loosens. Place rack atop pan and invert cake onto rack; remove pan. Cool completely.
Combine first 4 ingredients in small saucepan. Bring to boil over medium-high heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Boil until mixture is reduced to scant 1 cup, about 4 minutes. Remove from heat; cool ginger syrup to room temperature (do not strain). DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and chill.
Place berries in medium bowl. Strain ginger syrup. Pour over berries and toss. Cover; chill at least 1 hour. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 hours ahead. Keep chilled. Cut cake into slices and place on plates. Spoon berries with syrup alongside. Sprinkle with mint, if desired, and serve.
Also called turbinado or demerara sugar; available at most supermarkets and at natural foods stores.

Pistachio and Almond Cake with Orange Salad 
1 1/3 cups unsalted shelled pistachio nuts
1 1/3 cups blanched whole almonds
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (5 ounces) unsalted butter, at room temperature
3/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar
3 lemons
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
3 eggs
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon  inch00 inch flour or all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
3 blood oranges
2 Valencia, navel, or blood oranges
1/4 cup orange marmalade
1 teaspoon freshly squeezed lemon juice
1/2 cup plain whole-milk yogurt
Unsalted shelled pistachio nuts

To make the cake, preheat the oven to 300 degrees F. Butter a 4-by-8-inch loaf pan. Then, using a sifter or a fine-mesh strainer, dust it with flour, tapping out the excess.
In a food process, combine the pistachios and almonds and pulse until finely ground. Set aside.
Combine the butter and sugar in the bowl of a stand mixer. Grate the zest from the lemons directly into the bowl. Fit the mixer with the paddle attachment and beat on medium speed for about 2 minutes, or until smooth and creamy. Mix in the vanilla just until incorporated. On low speed, gradually add the nuts and mix just until incorporated. Then add the eggs, one at a time, mixing after each addition just until incorporated. Stir in the flour and salt and mix just until incorporated.
Spoon the batter into the prepared loaf pan. Bake until a skewer inserted into the middle of the cake comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Let cool in the pan on a wire rack for 10 minutes. Then, run a paring knife around the inside of the pan to loosen the cake sides, invert the cake onto a plate, and lift off the pan. At this point, the cake can be served warm or allowed to cool completely before being sliced and reheated.
To make the orange salad, cut a slice off the top and bottom of 1 orange, stand the orange upright, and cut downward to remove the rind and pith in thick strips. Cut the orange crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick slices, capturing any juice. Repeat with all of the remaining oranges. Set the oranges slices aside until needed.
Gently heat the marmalade in a pot over low heat for about 3 minutes, or until syrupy. Add any captured orange juice along with the lemon juice to the marmalade. Remove the pot from the heat and add 1 to 2 tablespoons water to think the marmalade to the consistency of a vinaigrette. Let cool.
To serve, preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Cut the cake into generous slices and place on a baking sheet. Bake the slices, turning them over once, for about 5 minutes, or until warm and slightly toasted on both sides.
Place 4 or 5 orange slices on each plate and drizzle generously with the marmalade syrup. Place the warm pieces of cake next to the orange slices and top with a dollop of yogurt and a few pistachios. Serve immediately.

Almond Cakes with Chocolate Passion-Fruit Sauce 
4 ounces almond paste (not marzipan)
1/2 cup sugar
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs, room temperature
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
Confectioners' sugar for dusting
5 ounces good-quality bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped
1/4 cup heavy cream
1/4 cup passion fruit juice, such as Loóza Passion Fruit Nectar
6 (1/2-cup) ramekins, food processor, stand mixer with paddle attachment

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour ramekins.
In food processor, process almond paste and sugar until mixture resembles fine sand, 10 to 15 seconds. Transfer to bowl of stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment, then add butter and beat until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition and scraping down bowl as necessary, about 1 minute. Add vanilla and beat until incorporated, about 30 seconds.
In small bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt. Sift over almond paste mixture, then mix until incorporated, about 30 seconds.
Divide batter among prepared ramekins, smoothing tops. Transfer to baking sheet and bake until cakes are golden brown and springy to touch, about 30 minutes. Transfer to rack to cool while making sauce. (Cakes can be baked ahead, removed from ramekins, and frozen, wrapped tightly in plastic wrap, up to 1 week. Allow 4 hours for cakes to thaw at room temperature. To rewarm, place on parchment-paper-lined baking sheet and bake at 350 degrees F for 10 minutes.)
Transfer chopped chocolate to small bowl.
In small saucepan over moderate heat, stir together cream and passion fruit juice. Bring to boil, then pour over chocolate and let stand 30 seconds. Using heat-proof silicone spatula, stir until smooth, about 30 seconds. Cover with plastic wrap and keep warm.
Pour about 2 tablespoons sauce into center of each plate.
Run small, thin knife around inner edge of 1 ramekin, then invert onto palm of hand and, using other palm, smack bottom of ramekin to release cake. Transfer cake to rack and sift confectioners' sugar over, then transfer to prepared plate. Unmold remaining cakes in same manner. Serve immediately.

Soft Chocolate Cookies with Grapefruit and Star Anise 
8 ounces bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, diced
1 teaspoon plus 1/4 cup sugar
3 whole star anise*
1/4 cup all purpose flour
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons honey
2 teaspoons finely grated grapefruit peel

Combine chocolate and butter in medium microwave-safe bowl. Microwave in 10-second intervals until chocolate is almost melted; remove and stir until melted and smooth. Finely grind 1 teaspoon sugar and 3 star anise in spice mill or small coffee grinder. Transfer to small bowl; whisk in flour, cocoa, coarse salt, and baking powder.
Beat remaining 1/4 cup sugar, eggs, honey, and grapefruit peel in large bowl until thick and smooth. Fold in chocolate, then dry ingredients. Cover bowl; chill batter until cold and firm, at least 45 minutes and up to 1 day.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line 3 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Drop batter by tablespoonfuls onto prepared sheets, spacing mounds 2 inches apart.
Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until dry-looking and tester comes out with moist crumbs still attached, about 10 minutes. Cool on sheet 3 minutes, then transfer to racks and cool completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight between sheets of waxed paper.
Star anise is a brown, star-shaped seedpod. It's available in the spice section of some supermarkets and at specialty

Meyer Lemon Custard Cakes 
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar, divided
1/4 cup all purpose flour
Pinch of salt
1 1/3 cups whole milk
2 large eggs, separated
1/3 cup fresh Meyer lemon juice or regular lemon juice
2 tablespoons finely grated Meyer lemon peel or regular lemon peel
1 8-ounce container chilled crème fraîche*

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter eight 3/4-cup ramekins or custard cups. Whisk 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar, flour, and pinch of salt in medium bowl to blend. Combine milk, egg yolks, lemon juice, and lemon peel in large bowl; whisk until blended. Add flour mixture to yolk mixture and whisk custard until blended. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar to whites and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold 1/4 of whites into custard. Fold remaining whites into custard in 2 additions (custard will be slightly runny).
Divide custard equally among prepared ramekins. Place ramekins in large roasting pan. Pour enough hot water into pan to come halfway up sides of ramekins. Bake custard cakes until golden brown and set on top (custard cakes will be slightly soft in center), about 27 minutes. Chill custard cakes uncovered until cold, at least 4 hours, then cover and keep refrigerated. DO AHEAD: Custard cakes can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled.
Using electric mixer, beat crème fraîche in medium bowl until softly whipped.
Run small knife around each custard cake to loosen. Invert each cake onto plate. Place dollop of crème fraîche atop or alongside cakes and serve.
Sold at some supermarkets and at specialty foods stores.

Nonna's Biscotti 
1 cup sugar
1 stick unsalted butter, melted
3 tablespoons brandy
2 teaspoons pure almond extract
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 cup whole almonds with skin, lightly toasted , cooled, and coarsely chopped
3 large eggs
2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt

Stir together sugar, butter, brandy, and extracts in a large bowl, then stir in almonds and eggs. Stir in flour, baking powder, and salt until just combined.
Chill dough, covered, 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle.
Using moistened hands, halve dough and form 2 (16-by 2-inch) loaves on an ungreased large baking sheet.
Bake until pale golden, about 30 minutes. Carefully transfer loaves to a rack and cool 15 minutes.
Cut loaves into 3/4-inch slices with a serrated knife.
Arrange biscotti, with a cut side down, on a clean baking sheet and bake until golden, 20 to 25 minutes. Transfer to rack to cool completely.

Caramel-Date Upside-Down Cake 
2/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon salt
10 ounces Medjool dates (about 14), quartered lengthwise, pitted
1 3/4 cups cake flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 large eggs, room temperature
2/3 cup buttermilk
Whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place sugar and butter in 9-inch-diameter metal cake pan with 3-inch-high sides. Whisk over medium heat until sugar dissolves, butter melts, and sauce is bubbling thickly, about 3 minutes. Whisk in lemon juice and salt. Remove from heat and cool 5 minutes.
Arrange date quarters in 3 concentric circles in caramel, rounded side down, covering completely.
Sift first 4 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and both sugars in large bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in vanilla, then eggs, 1 at a time. Beat in dry ingredients in 3 additions alternately with buttermilk in 2 additions. Spoon batter over topping in pan.
Place cake pan on large baking sheet. Bake cake until puffed and golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 50 minutes.
Cool cake in pan on rack 15 minutes. Cut around pan sides and invert warm cake onto platter. Carefully lift off pan. Return any dates that stick to pan to top of cake. Scrape any caramel left in pan over cake.
Serve cake warm or at room temperature with whipped cream.

Salvadorian  inchQuesadilla inch Cake 
1 3/4 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
2 large eggs at room temperature 30 minutes
3 tablespoons sour cream
1/2 ounces finely grated parmesan
1/2 cup whole milk
1 teaspoon sesame seeds (optional), not toasted
Equipment: a 9- by 5-inch loaf pan

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F with rack in middle. Line bottom and sides of pan with parchment paper.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt. Beat butter and sugar in another bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale, about 1 minute. Beat in eggs, sour cream, and cheese.
Reduce speed to low and mix in milk. Add flour mixture and mix until just combined.
Transfer batter to pan and smooth top. Sprinkle with sesame seeds (if using). Bake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted into center of cake comes out clean, 30 to 40 minutes.
Cool to warm in pan, 20 to 30 minutes. Turn cake out onto a rack. Serve cake slightly warm or at room temperature.

Chewy Amaretti Sandwich Cookies 
1 (7-ounce) tube pure almond paste (not marzipan; 3/4 cup)
1 cup sugar
2 large egg whites at room temperature for 30 minutes
a pastry bag with a 3/8-inch plain tip

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F with racks in upper and lower thirds. Line 2 large (17- by 12-inch) 4-sided sheet pans with parchment paper.
Pulse almond paste and sugar in a food processor until broken up, then add egg whites and pulse until smooth. Transfer to pastry bag and pipe 3/4-inch rounds (1/3 inch high) about 3/4 inch apart in pans. Dip a fingertip in water and gently tamp down any peaks.
Bake, rotating and switching position of pans halfway through, until golden and puffed, 15 to 18 minutes.
Wearing an oven mitt, rest 1 pan in sink at an angle. Lift top edge of parchment and slowly pour about 1/4 cup water between parchment and sheet pan so that all of parchment is lightly moistened (water will steam on pan, moistening bottom of cookies to help them stick together later). Repeat with remaining sheet pan. Cool cookies in pans on racks.
Peel cookies from parchment and sandwich bottoms of cookies together

Raspberry-Lemon Heart Cakes 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
4 large eggs
2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup unsalted butter, melted, warm
1 cup whole milk, room temperature
Raspberry jam or fruit spread
Purchased lemon curd
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line heavy 18 x 12 x 1- inch baking sheet with parchment paper. Whisk first 3 ingredients in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat eggs, sugar, and vanilla in large bowl until very pale and thick, about 5 minutes. Beat in butter, then milk. Fold in flour mixture, then beat just until blended, about 30 seconds. Spread batter evenly into prepared baking sheet.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean and cake begins to color on top, 26 to 28 minutes. Cool cake completely on baking sheet on rack.
Using 4-inch heart-shaped cookie cutter, cut out 8 hearts from cake (cover and reserve leftover cake). Spread thin layer of jam over top of 1 cake heart. Spread 1 heaping teaspoon of lemon curd over; top with another cake heart. Repeat with remaining hearts, jam, and lemon curd. Sprinkle each with powdered sugar.

Lime Shortbread Cookies with White Chocolate and Almonds 
2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
3 tablespoons finely grated lime peel, divided
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 3.5-ounce bar high-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), finely chopped
1/2 cup chopped toasted almonds

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 13x9x2-inch metal baking pan. Blend flour, sugar, and salt in processor. Add butter, 2 tablespoons lime peel, and vanilla; process just until blended and dough forms clumps. Press evenly into prepared baking pan. Pierce dough all over with fork. Using sharp knife, cut dough into 12 squares, cutting through dough completely, then cut each square in half on diagonal, forming 24 triangles total.
Bake shortbread until golden brown, crisp around edges, and firm to touch, about 45 minutes. Remove from oven. Using sharp knife, immediately recut shortbread, gently separating triangles. Cool shortbread in pan on rack.
Place white chocolate in small metal bowl. Set bowl over small saucepan of gently simmering water and stir just until chocolate is melted and smooth. Remove bowl from over water. Using fork, drizzle melted chocolate in zigzag pattern over shortbread. Sprinkle evenly with almonds and remaining 1 tablespoon lime peel. Let stand until chocolate sets, about 1 hour.

Peanut Butter and Jelly Shortbread Wedges 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/4 cup creamy (smooth) natural peanut butter (made with only peanuts and salt)
1/2 cup sugar
Large pinch of salt
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/3 cup blackberry jam

Spray bottom of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with nonstick spray. Beat butter and peanut butter in large bowl until smooth, about 2 minutes. Add sugar and salt and beat until fluffy, about 2 minutes. Beat in vanilla. Add flour; beat on low speed just until blended.
Transfer 1/3 cup dough to work surface. Shape into 1/2-inch-thick disk, place on plate, and freeze until hard, about 1 hour. Press remaining dough evenly over bottom of prepared pan. Spread jam over dough in pan, leaving 1/3-inch plain border. Refrigerate while dough disk freezes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Using large holes of box grater, grate frozen dough evenly over jam. Bake shortbread until dough edge is deep golden and grated dough on top looks dry and baked through, about 50 minutes. Cool shortbread completely in pan.
Release pan sides. Cut shortbread into wedges. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Flourless Chocolate-Walnut Cookies 
Parchment paper
2 1/2 cups walnut halves
3 cups confectioners' sugar
1/2 cup plus 3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 egg whites
1 tablespoon vanilla extract

Position 2 racks in the upper and lower thirds of oven. Heat oven to 350 degrees . Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Place walnuts on a work surface and finely chop. Transfer to a separate large baking sheet and toast until fragrant, about 9 minutes. Let cool. Mix sugar, cocoa and salt in a bowl. Stir in walnuts. Add egg whites and vanilla; beat with a fork or electric mixer on medium until batter is just moistened. (Do not overbeat batter or it will stiffen.) Drop batter by the teaspoonful onto baking sheets in evenly spaced mounds. Bake cookies until tops are lightly cracked and glossy, about 15 minutes. Repeat with remaining batter. Store in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 1 week.

Coconut Oatmeal Lace Cookies 
1 stick unsalted butter
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sweetened flaked coconut
3/4 cup rolled oats
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
3 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped and melted
3 ounces fine-quality white chocolate, finely chopped and melted
Equipment: 2 (17-by 11-inch) nonstick bakeware liners such as Silpats; 2 heavy-duty sealable bags

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Line 2 large baking sheets with nonstick liners.
Melt butter with brown sugar and salt in a metal bowl set over a pot of simmering water, stirring occasionally. Stir in coconut, oats, and flour until just combined. Remove pot from heat but keep batter warm over pot (so batter is easier to spread).
Drop rounded teaspoons of batter at least 3 1/2 inches apart on 1 baking sheet and spread each to about 2 inches with an offset spatula or back of a spoon. Bake until cookies are bubbling and golden brown, 8 to 12 minutes. Cool on baking sheet on a rack until firm, 3 to 4 minutes, then transfer cookies to rack to cool completely. Form and bake more cookies on second baking sheet (wipe liners clean and cool between batches).
Cool melted chocolates slightly. Transfer each to a sealable bag and snip a 1/16-inch opening at a corner of each bag. Put some of cooled cookies on a parchment-lined tray that will fit in freezer, then pipe chocolates decoratively over cookies. Freeze 2 to 3 minutes to set chocolate, then carefully remove cookies from parchment.

Chocolate-Ginger Angel Food Cake 
Parchment paper
1 1/3 cups confectioners' sugar
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2/3 teaspoon ground ginger
9 egg whites
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons granulated sugar
1 cup half-and-half
4 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
3 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
1/2 cup candied (crystallized) ginger, chopped

Position a rack in the center of the oven and heat to 350 degrees F. Line a 10-inch springform or Bundt pan with parchment paper. Sift confectioners' sugar, flour, cocoa and ground ginger in a bowl; set aside. Using a mixer fitted with the whisk attachment on medium speed, whip egg whites, vanilla, cream of tartar and salt until whites begin to form soft peaks, 1 to 2 minutes. Increase speed to high, add 6 tablespoons granulated sugar and whip until incorporated. Add remaining 3/4 cup granulated sugar in 2 increments and whip until whites hold stiff peaks, about 2 minutes. Gently fold dry ingredients into egg mixture with a spatula. Pour batter into pan. Bake until cake springs back when touched, 35 to 40 minutes. Remove from oven and cool completely. Loosen edges with a knife; transfer to a serving platter. Chocolate glaze: Bring half-and-half to a boil in a saucepan over medium-high heat. Reduce heat to a low simmer and add chocolate and confectioners' sugar; whisk until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Pour glaze over top of cake, allowing it to drip down sides. Top with candied ginger. Store at room temperature in a cake saver for up to 3 days.

Apple Tea Cakes 
3 tablespoons butter
2 tablespoons light butter
56 paper petit four cups (1 inch)
14 ounces almond paste (pure marzipan)
1 tablespoon pure apricot spreadable fruit
3 whole eggs
1 egg white
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
2 large apples (preferably Braeburn or Golden Delicious), peeled, cored and chopped into 1/4-inch cubes
4 teaspoons confectioners' sugar

Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Place butters in a bowl and microwave until melted, 30 to 45 seconds. Let cool 10 to 15 minutes. Arrange petit four cups on a large baking sheet. Combine almond paste and spreadable fruit in an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment and beat at medium speed until smooth, about 30 seconds. Scrape inside of bowl to incorporate all ingredients. Beat in eggs and egg white one at a time. Beat in flour at low speed until just combined, about 30 seconds. Add butter and beat until blended, about 30 seconds. Pour batter into a 1-gallon plastic resealable bag. Force air from bag and seal. Snip 1/4-inch piece off one of the lower corners and pipe batter into cups, filling them three quarters full. Place a few apple cubes on top of each cup. Sift sugar over cakes. Bake until light golden, 26 minutes. Let cool. Store in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 1 week.

Lemon Lemon Loaf 
1 1/2 cups cake flour
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 1/4 cups sugar
8 large eggs, at room temperature
1/4 cup grated lemon zest (from about 4 lemons)
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
2 cups (4 sticks) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1/2 cup sour cream, at room temperature
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1/3 cup fresh lemon juice
1/3 cup sugar
2 cups confectioners' sugar, sifted, or more if needed
4 to 6 tablespoons fresh lemon juice

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Spray the sides and bottom of two 9-by-5-by-3-inch loaf pans with nonstick cooking spray. Line the bottom with parchment paper and spray the paper.
Sift both flours, baking powder, baking soda, and salt together in a medium bowl.
Put the sugar, eggs, lemon zest, and lemon juice in a food processor and pulse until combined. With the motor running, drizzle the butter in through the feed tube. Add the sour cream and vanilla and pulse until combined. Transfer the mixture to a large bowl.
Sprinkle the flour mixture, one third at a time, folding gently after each addition until just combined. Do not overmix.
Divide the batter evenly between the prepared pans. Bake in the center of the oven for 20 minutes, rotate the pans, reduce the oven temperature to 325 degrees F., and bake for another 30 to 35 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center of the loaf comes out clean.
Let cool in the pans for 15 minutes.
In a small saucepan over medium heat, heat the lemon juice and sugar until the sugar is completely dissolved. Once dissolved, continue to cook for 3 more minutes. Remove from the heat and set aside.
Line a half sheet pan with parchment paper and invert the loaves onto the pan. Use a toothpick to poke holes in the tops and sides of the loaves.
Brush the tops and sides of the loaves with the lemon syrup. Let the syrup soak into the cake and brush again. Let the cakes cool completely, at least 30 minutes.
(The soaked but unglazed loaves will keep, wrapped in two layers of plastic wrap and frozen, for up to 6 weeks.)
In a small bowl, whisk together the confectioners' sugar and 4 tablespoons of the lemon juice. The mixture should be thick but pourable. If the mixture is too stiff, add up to another 2 tablespoons lemon juice and whisk again, adding small amounts of lemon juice and/or confectioners' sugar until you get the right consistency. Pour the lemon glaze over the top of each loaf and let it drip down the sides. Let the lemon glaze harden, about 15 minutes, before serving.
The glazed loaves will keep for up to 3 days, wrapped tightly in plastic wrap, at room temperature.

Twelve-Layer Mocha Cake 
4 large egg yolks at room temperature 30 minutes
2 tablespoons whole milk
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
3/4 cup sugar, divided
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 large egg whites at room temperature 30 minutes
6 ounces fine-quality 60%-cacao bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped
1/4 cup water
5 large eggs, separated, at room temperature 30 minutes
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sugar, divided
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder
2/3 cup hazelnuts (3 1/2 ounces)
3 large egg whites at room temperature 30 minutes
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/2 cup sugar
1/3 cup water
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon instant-espresso powder
Coffee and mocha buttercreams
Equipment: 3 (15-by 10-inch) 4-sided sheet pans (1/2 inch deep)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter 1 sheet pan and line bottom with parchment paper, then butter parchment. Dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Whisk together yolks, milk, vanilla, and 1/2 cup sugar in a large bowl until combined well, then whisk in flour and salt until smooth. (Batter will be thick.)
Beat whites with an electric mixer until they just hold soft peaks. Beat in remaining 1/4 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, and beat until whites just hold stiff peaks.
Fold one third of whites into batter to lighten, then fold in remainder gently but thoroughly.
Spread batter evenly in pan and rap against counter to release any air bubbles. Bake until cake is dry to the touch and pale golden, 10 to 11 minutes. (Leave oven on.) Cool completely in pan on a rack.
Halve cake crosswise, cutting through parchment, to form 2 (10-by 7 1/2-inch) layers.
Line second sheet pan with parchment paper.
Melt chocolate with water, then cool to lukewarm.
Beat yolks, salt, and 1/4 cup sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until thick and pale, about 5 minutes with a stand mixer or 8 minutes with a handheld. Fold in melted chocolate.
Beat whites with cleaned beaters until they hold soft peaks. Beat in remaining 1/4 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, and beat until whites just hold stiff peaks, about 5 minutes.
Fold one third of whites into chocolate mixture to lighten, then fold in remainder gently but thoroughly. Spread batter evenly in lined sheet pan.
Bake until puffed and a wooden pick inserted into center comes out with a few crumbs adhering, 25 to 30 minutes. Transfer pan to a rack, then cover top of soufflé with 2 layers of damp paper towels. Let stand 5 minutes. Remove towels and cool soufflé completely in pan (soufflé will deflate as it cools). Sift cocoa over soufflé, then loosen edges with a sharp knife.
Halve soufflécrosswise, cutting through parchment, to form 2 (10-by 7 1/2-inch) layers.
Toast hazelnuts, then cool, wrapped in a kitchen towel, and rub off any loose skins.
Reduce oven to 250 degrees F.
Finely chop nuts.
Beat whites with salt and cream of tartar using electric mixer until they just hold soft peaks. Beat in sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, and beat until meringue is stiff but still glossy.
Line bottom of third sheet pan with parchment. Put small dabs of meringue under corners of parchment to secure to baking sheets.
Fold nuts into meringue and spread evenly in pan. Bake until set and pale golden, 25 to 30 minutes.
Halve meringue crosswise, cutting through parchment, to form 2 (10-by 7 1/2-inch) layers. Return to oven and bake until crisp, 45 minutes to 1 hour more. Cool in pan, then peel off parchment.
Bring water, sugar, and espresso powder to a boil, stirring until sugar has dissolved. Cool.
Loosen edges of 1 cake layer with a knife and invert onto a flat platter. Carefully peel parchment from cake and brush with some of syrup. Spread with 1 1/4 cups mocha buttercream.
Top with 1 meringue layer and spread with 1 1/4 cups coffee buttercream.
Carefully invert 1 soufflé layer onto buttercream and peel off parchment, then gently spread with 1 1/4 cups coffee buttercream.
Repeat layering, ending with coffee buttercream (there will be some left over). Chill at least 1 hour (after that, wrap in plastic wrap). Trim all around cake with a long sharp knife to neaten edges. Bring to room temperature (about 1 hour) before serving.

Orange Pudding Cake 
2 large navel oranges
1/3 cup sugar
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
Rounded 1/4 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs, separated
1 cup whole milk
1/2 stick unsalted butter, melted and cooled
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter a 1 1/2-quart gratin or other shallow baking dish.
Finely grate 2 teaspoons zest from 1 orange, then squeeze 1/2 cup juice from oranges.
Whisk together sugar, flour, and salt in a large bowl.
Whisk together yolks, milk, butter, zest, orange juice, and lemon juice in a small bowl and add to flour mixture, whisking until just combined.
Beat egg whites in another large bowl with an electric mixer until they hold soft peaks. Stir about one fourth of whites into batter to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly (batter will be thin).
Pour into baking dish and bake in a hot water bath until puffed and golden, 40 to 45 minutes. Transfer to a rack. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Chocolate Hazelnut Cookies 
1 cup hazelnuts (5 ounces)
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
1 1/4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 large egg
1 tablespoon dark rum
Equipment: decorative cookie cutters (about 3 inches)
Garnish:

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F with rack in middle.
Toast nuts in a small baking pan in oven until centers are golden, 12 to 15 minutes. Wrap in a kitchen towel and cool to warm, then rub off any loose skins. Chop nuts.
Whisk together flour, cocoa, baking powder, and salt.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy, then beat in egg and rum. At low speed, mix in flour mixture in 3 batches just until a dough forms. Stir in nuts.
Divide dough in half and form each half into a 5-inch square. Wrap in plastic and chill until firm, at least 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F with racks in upper and lower thirds. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Roll out 1 piece of dough between 2 sheets of parchment into an 11-to 12-inch square. Freeze on a tray until firm, about 20 minutes.
Remove top sheet of parchment and cut out shapes with cookie cutters, arranging them 1/2 inch apart on baking sheets.
Bake cookies, switching position and rotating sheets halfway through, until firm and tops are slightly cracked, 8 to 12 minutes total. Transfer cookies to racks to cool completely.
Repeat with remaining dough (cool baking sheets and line with fresh parchment). Reroll scraps once for extra cookies if desired.

Peanut Butter and Chocolate Cheesecake Brownies 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
8 ounces bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, diced
1/2 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/3 cup creamy (smooth) natural peanut butter (made with only peanuts and salt)
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup sugar
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
2 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Spray 9-inch square metal baking pan with 2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray; line bottom with parchment paper.
Stir chocolate and butter in medium saucepan over low heat until smooth; cool 10 minutes. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, eggs, and vanilla in medium bowl until very fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in chocolate mixture on low speed, then beat in flour and salt. Spread batter in pan.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, peanut butter, and vanilla in medium bowl until smooth. Gradually add sugar, beating until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in cream, then flour. Transfer 1/3 cup cheesecake batter to small bowl and reserve. Spread remaining cheesecake batter over brownie layer.
Place chocolate in small microwave-safe bowl. Microwave on low power in 10-second intervals until chocolate begins to melt, then stir until smooth. Mix chocolate into reserved 1/3 cup cheesecake batter. Drop chocolate batter by heaping teaspoonfuls atop cheesecake layer. Using chopstick or wooden skewer, swirl chocolate batter in figure-eight pattern through white cheesecake layer.
Bake brownies until edges of cheesecake layer are puffed and center is set, about 36 minutes. Cool brownies in pan on rack. Cover; chill at least 1 hour.
Cut brownies into 25 squares. Using narrow spatula, transfer brownies to platter. Serve cold.

Chocolate Cake with Milk Chocolate-Peanut Butter Frosting and Peanut Butter Brittle 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3 cups all purpose flour
2 cups sugar
2/3 cup sifted natural unsweetened cocoa powder (sifted, then measured)
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups water
2/3 cup vegetable oil
2 tablespoons apple cider vinegar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Vegetable oil
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup light corn syrup
1/4 cup water
1 cup chopped lightly salted dryroasted peanuts
1 teaspoon creamy (smooth) natural peanut butter (made with only peanuts and salt)
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 ounces imported milk chocolate, chopped
5 tablespoons heavy whipping cream
2 1/4 cups powdered sugar
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
3/4 cup creamy (smooth) natural peanut butter (made with only peanuts and salt)
3/4 cup chilled mascarpone cheese*

Line large rimmed baking sheet with foil; brush with oil. Bring sugar, corn syrup, and 1/4 cup water to boil in heavy medium saucepan over medium-high heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Boil without stirring until syrup is deep amber, swirling pan occasionally, about 10 minutes. Immediately stir in peanuts and all remaining ingredients. Scrape out mixture onto prepared sheet; spread out to about 13x9-inch rectangle. Cool completely. Coarsely chop enough brittle to measure 1 cup and finely chop enough to measure 1/2 cup. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Store in separate airtight containers at room temperature.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Line pan bottoms with parchment paper. Sift flour, sugar, cocoa, baking soda, and salt into large bowl. Whisk 2 cups water, oil, vinegar, and vanilla in medium bowl to blend. Gradually add water mixture to dry ingredients, whisking until batter is smooth. Divide batter between prepared pans (scant 3 cups each).
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out with a few crumbs still attached, about 28 minutes. Cool cakes in pans 15 minutes. Cut around cakes and turn out onto racks. Peel off parchment and cool.
Place chocolate in medium bowl. Bring 5 tablespoons cream just to simmer in small saucepan over medium heat. Pour cream over chocolate; whisk until melted and smooth. Let stand until thick enough to spread, whisking occasionally, about 30 minutes.
Beat powdered sugar, 1 1/2 cups chilled cream, and peanut butter in large bowl just until blended. Add mascarpone; beat frosting just until thickened (do not overbeat).
Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on platter. Spread milk chocolate filling evenly over; sprinkle with 1/2 cup finely chopped peanut brittle. Spread with 1 cup frosting. Top with second cake layer, flat side down. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Cover with cake dome and chill 1 hour. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled. Let stand at room temperature 2 hours before continuing.
Sprinkle 1 cup coarsely chopped brittle over top of cake and serve.
An Italian cream cheese; sold at many supermarkets and at Italian markets.

Dulce de Leche Half-Moons 
1/2 cup raw green (hulled) pumpkin seeds
Powdered water-soluble food colorings in assorted colors
5 teaspoon water, divided
50 (70-mm) Back-Oblaten (German round edible wafer papers; about 2 3/4-inch)
1 cup dulce de leche, cajeta, or arequipe

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. 3Spread seeds in a 4-sided sheet pan and toast in oven until puffed and slightly golden (but not browned), 6 to 8 minutes. Cool completely on a plate.
Stir 1/4 teaspoon colored powder into 1 teaspoon water in a small bowl until dissolved.
Spread 10 wafers in 1 layer on a rack. Paint tops of wafers lightly with coloring using a pastry brush (for white wafers, brush with water). Let stand until pliable, 3 to 5 minutes (if too wet to lift, let stand until slightly drier). Invert wafers, then spoon a level teaspoon dulce de leche onto unpainted side of each. Fold each in half, pressing to spread dulce de leche just to edge. Insert 8 seeds halfway into _dulce de leche_dulce de leche is firm enough to hold seeds in place, 1 to 4 hours.
Meanwhile, paint remaining wafers with remaining colors, 1 color at a time. Make more confections in same manner.

Moravian Crisps with Royal Icing 
1/4 cup vegetable shortening (trans-fat-free)
1/3 cup packed light brown sugar
1/2 cup unsulfured molasses (not blackstrap)
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 (1-pound) box confectioners sugar
4 teaspoons powdered egg whites (not reconstituted) such as Just Whites
1/2 cup water
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
Food coloring (optional)
Equipment: a pastry or flour-sack cloth and a cloth rolling-pin sleeve; decorative cookie cutters;a small offset spatula; pastry bags fitted with pastry tips

Pulse shortening, brown sugar, and molasses in a food processor until smooth. Meanwhile, whisk together flour, baking soda, spices, and salt. Add to processor and blend just until combined.
Turn out dough onto a floured surface and knead briefly, allowing dough to absorb a little more flour if sticky. Divide dough in half and form each half into a 3-inch square. Wrap each in plastic wrap and chill at least 1 day.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F with rack in middle. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Roll out 1 piece of dough on a floured pastry cloth using floured sleeve-covered rolling pin until very thin (less than 1/16 inch thick), about a 15-inch square. Cut out shapes with cookie cutters and, using offset spatula to transfer, arrange about 1/2 inch apart on baking sheets.
Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, 10 minutes. Let stand 1 minute on sheet, then loosen with spatula and transfer on parchment to a rack to crisp, about 10 minutes. If first batch isn't crisp, bake 1 minute more (on baking sheet), then bake remaining batches 10 to 11 minutes. Cool cookies completely on rack.
Repeat with remaining dough (cool baking sheets and line with fresh parchment). Reroll scraps once for extra cookies if desired.
Beat together icing ingredients in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until just combined, about 1 minute. Increase speed to high and beat until icing holds soft peaks, about 3 minutes more. If desired, divide icing and add food coloring.
Fill pastry bags with icing and pipe decoratively on cookies, then let set, about 1 hour.

Peanut Butter Cheesecake with Caramelized Banana Topping 
18 whole graham crackers, coarsely broken
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, diced
6 tablespoons (packed) golden brown sugar
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup creamy (smooth) natural peanut butter (made with only peanuts and salt)
3/4 cup sugar
1/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
4 large eggs
1/3 cup sour cream topping
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature, diced
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
7 firm but ripe bananas

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Combine broken graham crackers, diced butter, and sugar in processor. Blend until crumbs stick together. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and 2 1/2 inches up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Bake crust until golden, about 12 minutes. Cool crust on rack. Maintain oven temperature.
Beat cream cheese and peanut butter in large bowl until blended and creamy, about 3 minutes. Add both sugars and beat until fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in vanilla, then eggs 1 at a time, then sour cream. Scrape cheesecake batter into crust.
Stack 3 large pieces of foil on work surface and place springform pan in center. Fold foil snugly up sides of pan. Place springform pan in roasting pan. Add enough water to roasting pan to come 1 inch up sides of springform pan.
Bake cheesecake in water bath until sides are puffed and center is set and edges are beginning to brown, about 1 hour 25 minutes. Place hot cheesecake directly in refrigerator; chill uncovered until cold, at least 6 hours and up to 1 day.
Whisk diced butter and sugar in heavy large skillet over mediumlow heat until butter melts, sugar dissolves, and smooth caramel sauce bubbles thickly, about 4 minutes. Slice bananas into 1/2-inch-thick, 2-inch-long diagonal slices, discarding ends. Working in batches if necessary, add banana slices to skillet in single layer and cook over medium heat until heated through and coated, turning once, 1 to 2 minutes per batch. Using forks, carefully transfer banana slices to top of cheesecake, arranging in concentric overlapping circles. Let cheesecake stand at room temperature up to 1 hour before slicing and serving.

Glazed Lime Cake 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) butter, room temperature
2 1/2 cups powdered sugar, divided
2 large eggs, room temperature
1/4 cup milk
1 1/3 cups self-rising flour
2 to 3 large limes
1/4 cup sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 8-inch square baking pan. Using electric mixer, cream butter and 11/2 cups powdered sugar in large bowl. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in milk, then flour. Transfer batter to prepared pan; smooth top. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes.
Meanwhile, finely grate enough lime peel to measure 1 tablespoon. Halve limes; squeeze enough juice to measure 1/4 cup. Mix peel, juice, and 1/4 cup sugar in small bowl. Set lime syrup aside.
Using skewer, poke holes all over baked cake. Spoon half of lime syrup (about 3 tablespoons) over hot cake. Cool.
Whisk 1 cup powdered sugar into remaining lime syrup; drizzle over cake. Let stand 1 hour. Cut cake into squares.

Glittering Lemon Sandwich Cookies 
1 1/3 cups all-purpose flour
2/3 cup cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup confectioners sugar
1 tablespoon grated lemon zest
1 teaspoon vanilla
White or colored sanding sugars
1 cup confectioners sugar
1 tablespoon grated lemon zest
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
1/2 stick unsalted butter, softened
Equipment: a heavy-duty sealable bag

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Whisk together flour, cornstarch, and salt.
Beat together butter and confectioners sugar with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy, then beat in zest and vanilla. At low speed, mix in flour mixture just until a soft dough forms.
Put sanding sugars in different bowls. Roll a scant teaspoon of dough into a ball and drop into sugar, turning to coat. Reshape if necessary and transfer to a baking sheet. Repeat, spacing balls 3/4 inch apart, until baking sheet is filled.
Bake until tops are slightly cracked but still pale (bottoms will be pale golden), 12 to 15 minutes. Transfer cookies on parchment to a rack to cool completely.
Form and bake more cookies on second baking sheet.
Beat together all filling ingredients in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until combined well. Transfer to sealable bag and snip off a corner.
Turn over half of cookies and pipe about 1/2 teaspoon filling on flat side of each. Sandwich with remaining cookies, pressing gently.

Pecan-Raisin Drop Cookies 
1 cup all purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup unsalted butter, melted
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup raisins
3/4 cup pecans, coarsely chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment. Mix first 3 ingredients in bowl. Whisk sugar and butter in large bowl, 1 minute. Whisk in egg and vanilla. Stir in dry ingredients, then raisins and nuts. Drop dough by rounded teaspoonfuls onto sheets. Bake about 12 minutes. Transfer parchment to racks; cool.

Lemon-Cream Sandwich Cookies 
1 1/2 tablespoons finely grated lemon peel
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, at room temperature
2 cups (packed) powdered sugar
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon finely grated lemon peel
3 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 large eggs
2 large egg yolks

Using back of spoon, mash lemon peel and salt to paste in medium bowl. Add butter. Using electric mixer, beat until fluffy. Add sugar in 4 batches, beating after each addition until blended.
Boil lemon juice and lemon peel in small saucepan until mixture is reduced to 2 tablespoons, about 4 minutes. Pour into small bowl and cool. Sift flour, salt, and baking soda into medium bowl.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add sugar; beat until blended. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, then beat in yolks. Beat in lemon juice mixture. Add dry ingredients and stir to blend well. Cover dough and chill until firm, at least 4 hours and up to 1 day.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Roll out 1/3 of dough on lightly floured surface to scant 3/8-inch thickness. Using 2-inch round cutter, cut out cookies. Transfer cookies to prepared baking sheets. Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until golden at edges, about 12 minutes. Let cookies cool 5 minutes. Transfer to racks and cool completely. Repeat with remaining dough.
Spread 2 teaspoons filling on flat side of 1 cookie. Top with another cookie, flat side down. Repeat to make more sandwich cookies. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight in refrigerator.

Ambrosia Macaroons 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons finely grated orange peel
3 large eggs
24 ounces sweetened flaked coconut (about 6 cups firmly packed)
6 ounces bittersweet chocolate, melted

Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. Line 3 large rimmed baking sheets with parchment. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth. Add sugar and salt; beat until blended. Beat in orange peel, then eggs, 1 at a time. Mix in coconut. Drop batter onto sheets by tablespoonfuls, spacing 1 1/2 inches apart.
Bake macaroons, 1 sheet at a time, until golden on bottom and browned in spots, 25 to 30 minutes. Cool completely on sheets.
Using fork, drizzle chocolate over macaroons. Chill on sheets until chocolate is firm, about 30 minutes.

Fresh Peach and Gingercream Shortcakes 
2 cups all purpose flour
13 tablespoons sugar, divided
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled salted butter, diced
1/2 cup finely chopped crystallized ginger, divided
1/2 cup ginger ale
3 tablespoons plus 1 1/4 cups chilled heavy whipping cream, divided
4 large peaches, halved, thinly sliced

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Line baking sheet with parchment paper. Whisk flour, 6 tablespoons sugar, and baking powder in large bowl. Add butter; rub in with fingertips until very coarse meal forms (oatmeal-size flakes). Mix in 1/4 cup chopped ginger. Add ginger ale and 2 tablespoons cream. Toss until moist clumps form. Gather dough into 7-inch log. Cut crosswise into 6 equal rounds. Place on sheet, spaced apart. Shape each into 2 1/2-inch diameter round. Mix 1 tablespoon cream and 1 tablespoon sugar in small bowl; brush over top and sides of shortcakes.
Bake shortcakes until golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, 20 to 22 minutes. Cool on sheet.
Meanwhile, toss peaches in large bowl with 4 tablespoons sugar and remaining 1/4 cup chopped ginger. Whisk remaining 1 1/4 cups cream and 2 tablespoons sugar in medium bowl to peaks.
Halve shortcakes horizontally. Place bottoms on plates. Top each with peaches, whipped cream, and shortcake top.

Pumpkin Spice Layer Cake with Caramel and Cream Cheese Frosting 
3 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
1 15-ounce can pure pumpkin
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/4 cups vegetable oil
4 large eggs
2 teaspoons finely grated orange peel
1 1-pound box powdered sugar, divided
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon heavy whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
Candied orange peel*

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides, tapping out any excess flour. Whisk first 9 ingredients in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat pumpkin, sugar, and oil in another large bowl. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating to incorporate between additions. Mix in orange peel. Add flour mixture; beat on low speed just to blend. Divide batter between prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 33 minutes. Cool in pans 10 minutes. Invert onto rack, then turn top side up and cool completely.
Sprinkle 1/2 cup powdered sugar over bottom of small nonstick skillet. Cook over medium heat until sugar melts (do not stir). Continue cooking until sugar turns deep amber, stirring occasionally, about 2 minutes. Carefully stir in 1/2 cup cream, vanilla, and salt (mixture will bubble vigorously). Stir until any caramel bits dissolve. Stir in remaining 1 tablespoon cream. Strain into small bowl. Cool caramel to room temperature.
Sift remaining powdered sugar into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl. Gradually beat in powdered sugar. Beat in cooled caramel. Cover and chill frosting until firm enough to spread, about 2 hours.
Using long serrated knife, trim rounded tops from cakes. Place 1 cake layer on cake plate, cut side up. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over. Place second cake layer, cut side down, atop frosting. Cover top and sides of cake with remaining frosting, creating smooth surface. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome or large bowl and chill. Let stand at room temperature 2 hours before serving.
Sprinkle candied orange peel over top of cake. Cut into wedges and serve.
Available seasonally at most supermarkets and year-round at specialty foods stores and from chefshop.com.

Cinnamon Pecan Shortbread 
2 cups all purpose flour
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/4 cup cornstarch
1 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes, room temperature
1 large egg white, beaten to blend with 1 tablespoon water (for glaze)
1 1/2 cups chopped toasted pecans for wedges, or 36 pecan halves for round cookies
Raw sugar*

Whisk first 6 ingredients in large bowl to blend. Add butter. Mash with back of fork until coarse meal forms. Using fingertips, work dough until smooth; shape into disk. Wrap in plastic and chill until firm but not hard, about 30 minutes.
Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. For wedges, shape dough into 2 disks. Place on 2 heavy baking sheets; cover with plastic. Flatten to 10-inch rounds. Remove plastic. Brush with glaze. Sprinkle with chopped pecans, then raw sugar; press to adhere. For round cookies, shape dough into 1-inch balls; arrange on 2 heavy baking sheets, spacing 2 inches apart. Cover smooth-bottomed glass with plastic. Using glass, press each dough ball to 2-inch round. Cut with scalloped cookie cutter, if desired. Brush with glaze; top with pecan half and sprinkle with raw sugar.
Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until golden, about 30 minutes for large rounds and 22 minutes for small rounds. Cool large rounds on sheets 10 minutes, then cut each into 16 wedges. Cool all cookies completely on sheets. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.
*Also called turbinado or demerara sugar; available at most supermarkets and at natural food stores.

Rum-Scented Marble Cake 
2 2/3 cups all-purpose flour (spoon flour into a dry-measure cup and level off)
1 2/3 cups sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
12 ounces/350 grams (3 sticks) unsalted butter, softened
7 large eggs
3 tablespoons dark rum
2 tablespoons dark rum
2 tablespoons milk
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
6 ounces (175 grams) bittersweet (not unsweetened) chocolate, melted and cooled
2 cups Base Batter
1 (12-cup) tube or Bundt pan, buttered, coated with fine, dry bread crumbs, and sprayed with vegetable oil cooking spray

1. Set a rack in the lower third of the oven and preheat to 325 degrees F (160 degrees C).
2. In the bowl of an electric mixer, combine the flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt. Stir well by hand to mix. Add the butter. Beat the mixture on low speed with the paddle until the mixture is a smooth, heavy paste, 1 to 2 minutes.
3. Whisk the eggs and rum together. On medium speed, beat 1/3 of the egg mixture into the flour and butter mixture. Beat for 1 minute.
4. Stop and scrape down the bowl and beater. Add half of the egg mixture and beat for 2 minutes. Repeat with the other half.
5. Remove the bowl from the mixer and using a large rubber spatula give the batter a final mix.
6. For the chocolate batter, combine the rum, milk, and baking soda in a medium mixing bowl, Whisk well to dissolve the baking soda. Scrape in the chocolate and whisk it well. Add the 2 cups of base batter to the chocolate mixture and whisk well to combine.
7. Scrape half the remaining base batter into the prepared pan and smooth the top. Cover with the chocolate batter, making it as even a layer as possible. Finally top with the remaining base batter and smooth the top. Use a wide-bladed table knife or a thin metal spatula to marble the batter: Insert the knife into the batter at the central tube, with the flat side of the blade facing you. Draw the blade through the batter to the bottom of the pan and up and out of the side of the pan closest to you, repeating the motion every inch or so around the pan, making a spiral in the batter, almost as though you were folding egg whites into it. Stop when you get back to the point where you started. Don't bother to smooth the top of the batter—it might disturb the marbling.
8. Bake the cake until it is well risen and firm, and a toothpick or a small thin knife inserted midway between the side of the pan and the central tube emerges dry, about 1 hour.
9. Cool the cake in the pan for 5 minutes, then invert a rack over it. Invert and lift off the pan. Cool the cake completely over the rack.

Orange Pistachio Crescents 
2 2/3 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
2 large egg yolks
3 to 4 tablespoons ice water
1 large navel orange
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup water
1/2 cup coarsely chopped pistachios (2 1/4 ounces)
About 1 cup confectioners sugar
Equipment: a 3-inch fluted round cookie cutter

Whisk together flour, sugar, and salt in a large bowl (or pulse in a food processor). Blend in butter with your fingertips or a pastry blender (or pulse) until mixture resembles coarse meal with some roughly pea-size butter lumps. Beat together yolks and 3 tablespoon water with a fork and stir into flour (or pulse) until incorporated.
Gently squeeze a small handful of dough: If it doesn't hold together, stir (or pulse) in 1 tablespoon more water. Do not overwork dough or pastry will be tough.
Turn out dough onto a lightly floured surface and divide into 8 portions. With heel of your hand, smear each portion once in a forward motion to help distribute fat. Gather dough together and divide in half. Form each half into a 4-inch square. Wrap each in plastic wrap and chill until firm, at least 1 hour.
Cut off peel, including white pith, from orange with a sharp knife and finely chop. (Reserve fruit for another use.) Put peel in a 2-quart heavy saucepan, then fill with water. Add salt and bring to a boil, then boil, uncovered, 10 minutes. Drain in a fine-mesh sieve.
Bring granulated sugar and water (3/4 cup) to a boil in saucepan over medium-high heat, stirring until sugar has dissolved, then wash down any sugar crystals from side of pan with a pastry brush dipped in cold water. Add peel to syrup. Gently simmer, uncovered, until peel begins to turn translucent and syrup is reduced to about 2/3 cup, 20 to 30 minutes.
Drain peel in fine-mesh sieve set over a bowl, reserving 3 tablespoon syrup. Stir together peel, reserved syrup, and pistachios. Cool to room temperature.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F with rack in middle. Line a large baking sheet with parchment paper.
Roll out 1 piece of dough on a floured surface with a floured rolling pin into a 15- by 12-inch rectangle. Cut out 16 to 20 rounds with cookie cutter.
Put a scant teaspoon filling on each round, then brush edge lightly with water and fold pastry over filling to form a half-moon. Press edges to seal. Shape each into a crescent by pushing a finger against middle of flat side.
Bake 1 inch apart on baking sheet until golden, 15 to 20 minutes. Transfer cookies on parchment to a rack to cool 2 minutes. Toss warm cookies, a few at a time, in confectioners sugar to coat generously. Cool completely.
Repeat with remaining dough (cool baking sheet and line with fresh parchment). Reroll scraps once for extra cookies if desired.

Old-fashioned Fruitcake Cookies 
1 cup halved dried cherries
1 cup dried currants (about 5 ounces)
1 cup chopped pitted dates
1 cup golden raisins (about 5 ounces)
1 cup brown raisins (about 5 ounces)
1 cup chopped Simple Candied Orange Peel
6 tablespoons bourbon, divided
6 tablespoons dry Sherry (preferably imported), divided
9 to 10 dozen paper or foil bonbon-size (1-inch-diameter) baking cups
1 cup coarsely chopped walnuts
2 cups all purpose flour, divided
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
1 cup (packed) powdered sugar
4 teaspoons (or more) bourbon
4 teaspoons (or more) dry Sherry (preferably imported)
Diced or slivered Simple Candied Orange Peel

Toss first 6 ingredients in large bowl. Mix in 4 tablespoons each bourbon and Sherry. Cover; soak 2 to 24 hours.
Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. Arrange about 36 baking cups on each of 3 rimmed baking sheets. Stir walnuts, then 1 cup flour into fruit mixture, coating evenly. Whisk 1 cup flour, baking powder, salt, and spices in medium bowl.
Beat sugar and butter in another large bowl until smooth. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time. Beat in dry ingredients, then remaining 2 tablespoons each bourbon and Sherry. Fold in fruit mixture. Drop batter by heaping teaspoonfuls into baking cups.
Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until light brown, about 23 minutes. Cool.
Mix sugar and 4 teaspoons each bourbon and Sherry in bowl. Add more liquor by 1/2 teaspoonfuls in equal amounts to thin if necessary.
Spoon glaze over cookies; garnish with peel. Let stand until glaze sets, at least 2 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 week ahead. Store between sheets of waxed paper in airtight container at room temperature.

Devil's Food Cake with Peppermint Frosting 
2 2/3 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 1/4 cups sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
1 1/4 cups unsweetened cocoa powder, sifted
2 cups ice water
1 1/3 cups heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
14 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
12 ounces high-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), finely chopped
3 cups chilled heavy whipping cream, divided
1 1/2 teaspoons pure peppermint extract
2 1/4 cups sugar
1/2 cup water
3 large egg whites
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
1/2 teaspoon pure peppermint extract
Bittersweet chocolate curls

Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Dust pans with flour; tap out excess. Whisk first 4 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in yolk. Add cocoa and beat until well blended. Add flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with ice water in 2 additions, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating until just blended and smooth after each addition. Divide batter between prepared pans; smooth tops.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 15 minutes. Invert cakes onto racks and cool completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap in foil; store at room temperature.
Bring cream and corn syrup to simmer in medium saucepan. Remove from heat; add chocolate and whisk until melted and smooth. Transfer to small bowl. Chill until firm enough to spread, about 1 hour. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Before using, let stand at room temperature until soft enough to spread, about 30 minutes.
Place white chocolate in large heatproof bowl. Bring 1 cup cream to simmer in saucepan. Pour hot cream over white chocolate. Let stand 1 minute; whisk until smooth. Whisk in extract. Cover; chill until mixture thickens and is cold, at least 4 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Chill.
Add 2 cups chilled cream to white chocolate cream and beat until smooth and peaks form. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 hours ahead. Cover and chill. Rewhisk to thicken, if necessary, before using.
Using long serrated knife, cut each cake horizontally in half. Place 1 cake layer on platter, cut side up. Spread 1/3 of dark chocolate ganache over cake. Spoon 2 cups white chocolate cream in dollops over cake; spread evenly to edges. Top with second cake layer, cut side down; spread 1/3 of ganache over, then 2 cups white chocolate cream. Repeat with third cake layer, cut side up, remaining ganache, and remaining cream. Cover with fourth cake layer, cut side down. Chill while preparing frosting.
Combine sugar, 1/2 cup water, egg whites, and corn syrup in large bowl of heavy-duty stand mixer. Whisk by hand to blend well. Set bowl with mixture over saucepan of gently simmering water; whisk constantly with hand whisk until mixture resembles marshmallow creme and ribbons form when whisk is lifted, 8 to 9 minutes. Whisk in peppermint extract. Remove bowl from over water and attach bowl to heavy-duty stand mixer fitted with whisk attachment. Beat on high speed until mixture is barely warm to touch and very thick, 7 to 8 minutes.
Using offset spatula and working quickly, spread frosting over top and sides of cake. Sprinkle chocolate curls over top and sides. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; chill.

Lisa Loeb's Peanut Butter and Jelly Cookies 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
3/4 cup creamy natural peanut butter
1 large egg
3 cups whole-wheat flour
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon whole milk
1/2 cup all-fruit jam (such as St. Dalfour's Four Fruits)

Using an electric mixer, beat butter and sugar at high speed until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add peanut butter and beat until thoroughly incorporated, about 30 seconds. Scrape down bowl, add the egg, and beat until smooth, about 20 seconds.
In a large bowl, whisk together flour, salt, and baking powder. Add dry ingredients to butter-sugar mixture and beat at low speed until just combined, about 1 minute. Scrape down bowl, then add milk and beat at low speed until just combined, about 30 seconds.
Gather and press dough together, then divide into 2 equal pieces. Using a sheet of waxed paper as an aid, form each piece of dough into a log about 1 1/2 inches in diameter. Wrap logs tightly in plastic wrap and refrigerate until firm, at least 2 hours and up to 2 days. (Dough can be made ahead and frozen in an airtight bag for up to 6 months).
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F and lightly butter 2 large baking sheets.
Cut each log crosswise into 1/8-inch-thick slices and arrange slices 1/2 inch apart on prepared baking sheets. Top each cookie with a 1/2-teaspoon dollop of jam.
Bake cookies until edges are lightly browned and centers are set, about 10 minutes. Cool on sheets 2 minutes, then transfer to a rack to cool completely. (Cookies will keep, stored in a covered container at room temperature, up to 2 days.)

Brandied Plum Clafoutis 
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) salted butter, melted, divided
1 1/2 pounds plums, pitted; 1 plum sliced thin, others cut into 1/2-inch cubes
7 tablespoons plus 1/2 cup sugar, divided
4 tablespoons brandy, divided
1/4 cup thawed frozen orange juice concentrate
1/2 cup (about) heavy whipping cream
3 tablespoons all purpose flour
2 large eggs

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Brush six 5-inch diameter, 1-inch-high ovenproof dishes with 1 tablespoon melted butter; place dishes on rimmed baking sheet. Cook diced plums, 4 tablespoons sugar, and 2 tablespoons brandy in medium skillet over medium-high heat until juices bubble thickly, stirring often, about 5 minutes. Cover; cook until plums are just tender, stirring occasionally, 2 to 3 minutes.
Using slotted spoon, divide diced plums among prepared dishes. Add orange juice concentrate to juices in skillet; stir to blend. Pour into 1-cup measuring cup. Add remaining 2 tablespoons brandy, then enough cream to measure 3/4 cup total.
Whisk 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar and flour in large bowl. Whisk in cream mixture, eggs, and remaining 3 tablespoons melted butter. Spoon batter over plums in dishes. Top with plum slices; sprinkle with remaining 1 tablespoon sugar.
Bake clafoutis until puffed and crusty and center is just set, about 30 minutes. Cool 15 minutes and serve warm.

Spiced Cranberry Bundt Cake 
2 cups all purpose flour
3/4 cup almond flour or almond meal* (about 2 1/2 ounces)
2 1/2 teaspoons Chinese five-spice powder**
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup plain reduced-fat (2%) Greek-style yogurt
1 cup chopped toasted almonds
1 cup halved fresh or frozen cranberries (do not thaw)
1/2 cup dried sweetened cranberries
2/3 cup powdered sugar
4 teaspoons (about) orange juice

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 12-cup Bundt pan. Whisk first 8 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth. Add both sugars and beat until fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating 1 minute after each addition. Beat in vanilla extract, then Greek-style yogurt. Add dry ingredients; beat just until blended. Fold in almonds and all cranberries. Transfer batter to prepared Bundt pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Cool cake in pan 10 minutes. Turn cake out onto rack and cool completely.
Stir powdered sugar and 2 teaspoons orange juice in small bowl until sugar dissolves. Mix in more juice by 1/2 teaspoonfuls to reach consistency of heavy cream. Spoon icing over cake, allowing it to drip down sides. Let stand until icing sets, at least 30 minutes. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Cover with cake dome and store at room temperature.
Sometimes labeled  inchground almonds inch; available at specialty foods stores and natural foods stores.
** A spice blend that usually contains ground fennel seeds, Szechuan peppercorns, cinnamon, star anise, and cloves; available in the spice section of most supermarkets and online at penzeys.com.
Greek-style yogurt is especially thick and rich, even the reduced-fat variety.

Gingerbread Angels 
6 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon ground ginger
1 tablespoon ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup coarsely chopped crystallized ginger (about 3 ounces)
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 large eggs
1/4 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
1/4 cup fresh orange juice
2 teaspoons finely grated orange peel
1 egg white, beaten with 1 tablespoon water (for glaze; optional)
Raw sugar and/or colored sugar (optional)

Whisk flour, ground ginger, cinnamon, soda, and salt in large bowl. Place crystallized ginger in mini processor; add 1 tablespoon flour mixture and blend until ginger is very finely chopped. Using electric mixer, beat butter in another large bowl until smooth. Add 1 cup sugar and 1/2 cup brown sugar; beat until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time. Beat in molasses, orange juice, and orange peel (batter may look curdled). Beat in crystallized ginger mixture. Blend in remaining flour-spice mixture. Gather dough together. Flatten into disk. Wrap in plastic; chill at least 4 hours.
Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment. Divide dough into 4 portions; shape each into round. Chill 3 rounds. Roll out remaining dough round on floured work surface to generous 1/8-inch thickness. Using floured angel-shaped cookie cutter, cut out cookies. Gather dough scraps and reroll to generous 1/8-inch thickness; cut out more cookies. Using spatula, transfer cookies to sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Brush cookies with glaze, then sprinkle with raw sugar and/or colored sugar, if desired.
Bake cookies until golden, reversing sheets after 7 minutes, about 14 minutes total. Let stand 2 minutes; transfer to racks to cool. Repeat with remaining dough, cooling baking sheets between batches. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 week ahead. Store between sheets of waxed paper in airtight container.

Chocolate Chip and Banana Ice Cream Sandwiches 
1 16.5-ounce log refrigerated chocolate chip cookie dough or two 16-ounce tubs pre-portioned chocolate chip cookie dough rounds
2 pints premium banana ice cream, slightly softened
2 ripe bananas, cut into very thin slices
1 11.5-ounce package bittersweet chocolate chips
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1 1/2 cups loose granola or English toffee bits (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. If using dough log, cut into 20 equal-size rounds. Arrange sliced dough rounds (or 20 pre-portioned rounds) on 2 baking sheets, spacing evenly. Using fingertips, press each into 2 1/2-inch round. Bake cookies until golden, about 11 minutes for sliced rounds and 15 minutes for pre-portioned dough. Transfer to rack; cool.
Line baking sheet with foil; place in freezer. Place 1 cookie, flat side up, on work surface. Top with 1/3 cup ice cream; spread almost to edge. Top with single layer of bananas. Sandwich with another cookie; press gently to compact. Place on baking sheet in freezer. Repeat with remaining cookies, ice cream, and bananas. Freeze 2 hours. Using knife, smooth sides of ice cream sandwiches. Freeze 1 hour.
Place chocolate chips and oil in small glass bowl; microwave on medium-high until chocolate is melted, stopping occasionally to stir, about 1 1/2 minutes. Let stand just until cool, about 10 minutes.
Place granola or toffee (if using) on plate. Dip 1 ice cream sandwich halfway into melted chocolate; lift and quickly shake excess chocolate back into bowl. If desired, roll dipped edge in granola or toffee; return to baking sheet in freezer. Repeat with remaining sandwiches, chocolate, and granola or toffee. Freeze until firm, about 2 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Wrap each sandwich in foil; keep frozen.

Pumpkin Cheesecake with Marshmallow-Sour Cream Topping and Gingersnap Crust 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups gingersnap cookie crumbs (about 9 ounces)
1 cup pecans (about 3 1/2 ounces)
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 tablespoons chopped crystallized ginger
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
2 cups sugar
1 15-ounce can pure pumpkin
5 large eggs
3 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons vanilla extract
2 cups mini marshmallows or large marshmallows cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1/4 cup whole milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 cup sour cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Grind cookie crumbs, pecans, brown sugar, and ginger in processor until nuts are finely ground. Add butter; using on/off turns, process to blend. Transfer mixture to prepared pan; press onto bottom and 2 inches up sides of pan. Bake crust until set and lightly browned, about 10 minutes. Cool completely.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Beat in pumpkin. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating on low speed to incorporate each addition. Add flour, spices, and salt; beat just to blend. Beat in vanilla. Transfer filling to cooled crust. Bake until filling is just set in center and edges begin to crack (filling will move slightly when pan is gently shaken), about 1 hour 20 minutes. Cool 1 hour. Run knife around sides of pan to release crust. Chill cheesecake uncovered in pan overnight.
Stir marshmallows and milk in medium saucepan over low heat until marshmallows are melted. Remove from heat and stir in vanilla and salt. Cool marshmallow mixture to room temperature, stirring occasionally.
Add sour cream to marshmallow mixture; fold gently just to blend. Pour topping over cheesecake and spread evenly, leaving 1/2 inch uncovered around edges. Chill to set topping, at least 1 hour. DO AHEAD: Cheesecake can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled.

Espresso Blackberry Macarons 
3 ounces almond flour (2/3 cup) or blanched sliced almonds (3/4 cup) or slivered almonds (2/3 cup)
1 1/2 cups confectioners sugar
1 tablespoon instant-espresso powder
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
3 large egg whites, at room temperature 30 minutes
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons granulated sugar
About 1/2 cup blackberry jelly
a food processor with a sharp blade or an electric coffee/spice grinder
a large pastry bag fitted with a 3/8-inch plain tip or a quart-size sealable bag with a corner snipped off
an offset spatula.

Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Grind almond flour or almonds with confectioners sugar in food processor until powdery, 30 seconds for almond flour, about 2 minutes for almonds. (If using grinder, grind in small batches.) Sift through a medium-mesh sieve into a bowl (if not fine enough for almost all of nuts to go through sieve, regrind). Sift again into a large bowl.
Stir together espresso powder and vanilla in a cup until powder has dissolved.
Beat egg whites with salt in a bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until they just hold soft peaks. Beat in granulated sugar, a little at a time. Increase speed to high and beat until meringue holds stiff, glossy peaks, about 1 minute. Add espresso mixture and mix at low speed until incorporated. Fold meringue into almond mixture with a rubber spatula until completely incorporated. (Meringue will deflate and batter will be loose.)
Put small dabs of batter under corners of parchment to secure to baking sheets.
Spoon half of batter into pastry bag. Holding bag vertically just above baking sheet, pipe 1 1/2-inch-wide mounds of batter about 1 inch apart, stopping pressure and flicking tip sideways to avoid peaks (tamp down any peaks with a wet finger). Refill pastry bag and repeat. Let macarons stand, uncovered, at room temperature until a light crust forms, 20 to 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, preheat oven to 300 degrees F with racks in upper and lower thirds.
Bake macarons, switching position of sheets halfway through, until crisp and interior does not give easily when gently pressed, 22 to 28 minutes total. Cool completely on baking sheets (to harden bottoms) on racks, about 30 minutes. Loosen macarons from parchment with offset spatula (they will be fragile).
Sandwich flat sides of macarons together with a thin layer of jelly.
Layer macarons between sheets of parchment in an airtight container and let stand at room temperature at least 2 hours to soften before eating.
Chocolate earl grey macarons: •Add 3 tablespoons Dutch-process cocoa powder (preferably Valrhona) to almond flour or almonds when grinding. •Omit instant-espresso powder and vanilla. •Grind 1 teaspoon Earl Grey tea (from 1 tea bag) to a fine powder in an electric coffee/spice grinder. Sprinkle about 1/4 teaspoon (reserve remainder) on macarons before baking. •Fill with chocolate Earl Grey ganache: Bring 1/2 cup cream and remaining 3/4 teaspoon tea powder to a simmer in a small heavy saucepan. Remove from heat and stir in 3 ounces finely chopped bittersweet chocolate (60% to 64% cacao if marked) and 1 tablespoon unsalted butter until smooth. Chill, whisking occasionally, until thickened, 20 to 30 minutes. Transfer to a sealable bag. Snip off a corner and pipe to fill macarons. (There will be ganache left over.)
Grapefruit macarons: •Add 2 teaspoons grated grapefruit zest to almond flour or almonds when grinding. •Omit instant-espresso powder and vanilla. •Beat 6 drops red food coloring into meringue. • Fill with grapefruit marmalade.
Coconut passion-fruit macarons: •Add 1 cup unsweetened grated dried coconut (3 ounces) to almond flour or almonds when grinding. •Omit instant-espresso powder and vanilla. •Beat 6 drops yellow food coloring into meringue. •Fill with passion-fruit curd: Whisk together 1/3 cup thawed passion-fruit purée, 1/3 cup sugar, 3 large egg yolks, and a pinch of salt in a small heavy saucepan. Add 1/2 stick butter (cut into pieces). Bring to a simmer over medium-low heat, whisking, then simmer, whisking constantly, until curd is thick, 1 to 2 minutes. Cool completely. Transfer to a sealable bag. Snip off a corner and pipe to fill macarons. (There will be curd left over.)
Pistachio-cardamom macarons: •Substitute 1/3 cup unsalted shelled pistachios plus 1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom for half of the almond flour or almonds when grinding. •Omit instant-espresso powder and vanilla. •Beat 4 drops green and 3 drops yellow food coloring into meringue. •Fill with apricot jam.

Pomegranate Sheet Cake with Lime Glaze 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
3/4 cup pomegranate juice, divided
4 teaspoons grated lime peel, divided
1/2 cup plain Greek-style yogurt*
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2/3 cup pomegranate seeds
2 tablespoons thinly sliced mint leaves

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13x9x2-inch cake pan. Sift together flour, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl. Beat sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended, 1 minute. Using electric mixer, add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in 1/2 cup pomegranate juice and 2 teaspoons lime peel (mixture may appear curdled). Beat flour mixture into batter just until blended. Stir in yogurt.
Spread batter in pan. Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Let cake cool 15 minutes. Meanwhile, sift powdered sugar into medium bowl; whisk in 1/4 cup pomegranate juice, vanilla, and 1 teaspoon lime peel. Using fork, poke holes in top of warm cake, spacing 1 inch apart. Pour glaze over cake and spread evenly. Cool completely. Sprinkle pomegranate seeds, mint, and 1 teaspoon lime peel over cake before serving.
A thick yogurt sold at some supermarkets, specialty foods stores, and Greek markets.

Almond Brown-Sugar Cookies 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
1 cup packed light brown sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup whole blanched almonds (2 1/2 ounces)

Whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt. Beat together butter and brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy, then beat in egg and vanilla. At low speed, mix in flour mixture until a dough just forms. Stir in whole almonds. Divide dough in half. Using a sheet of plastic wrap or wax paper as an aid, form each piece of dough into a log 9 to 9 1/2 inches long (about 1 1/4 inches in diameter). Chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until very firm, at least 4 hours. Freeze 30 minutes to facilitate slicing.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with racks in upper and lower thirds. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Cut 1 log of dough crosswise into slices less than 1/8 inch thick with a thin sharp knife, rotating log after each slice to help keep round shape. (If dough gets too soft to slice through nuts easily, freeze briefly.) Arrange cookies about 1/2 inch apart on baking sheets.
Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through, until golden brown all over, 12 to 15 minutes total. Transfer cookies on parchment to racks to cool.
Repeat with remaining dough (cool baking sheets and line with fresh parchment).

Cranberry Pistachio Biscotti 
Parchment paper
2 cups all-purpose flour
2/3 cup sugar
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 egg whites
1 whole egg
3 tablespoons light butter
1/2 cup dried cranberries
1/2 cup slivered almonds
1/3 cup shelled pistachios
Grated zest of 1 lemon
1 tablespoon anise seeds
Vegetable oil cooking spray

Heat oven to 350 degrees . Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Combine flour, sugar, baking soda, baking powder and salt in the bowl of a stand mixer. Whisk with a fork to mix. Add eggs and butter and mix on medium until a loose dough forms, about 1 minute. Stir in cranberries, nuts, zest and anise seeds and mix until incorporated, about 15 seconds. Transfer dough to baking sheet. Spray hands with cooking spray and form dough into a long, flat log, about 14 inches long by 4 inches wide. Bake until outside of log is firm and browned, about 25 minutes. Remove from oven and cool 10 minutes. Slice loaf into 1/4-inch-thick slices. Arrange slices on 2 baking sheets, return to oven and bake until lightly toasted, about 12 minutes. Cool. Store in airtight container for up to 2 weeks.

Polenta Cake with Orange Blossom Yogurt, Berries, and Pistachios 
1 3/4 cups plain low-fat yogurt
2 cups low-fat (1%) milk
1 teaspoon fine sea salt
1/2 cup polenta (not quick-cooking)
1/4 cup (1 ounce) unsalted pistachios, preferably organic (natural; not dyed red)
Olive oil (for brushing)
12 drops orange blossom water (also called orange flower water)*
1/2 cup rambutan honey or other high-quality organic or raw honey with a fruity, citrusy flavor
1 1/2 pounds strawberries, hulled and halved
*Available at supermarkets, liquor stores, and Middle Eastern markets.
2 (12-inch) squares cheesecloth
*Available at supermarkets, liquor stores, and Middle Eastern markets.

Line fine-mesh sieve with double layer cheesecloth and set over medium bowl. Transfer yogurt to lined sieve, then pull up and tie together edges of cheesecloth, wrapping yogurt into bundle. Cover with plastic wrap and allow to drain in refrigerator at least 8 hours or overnight. (The yogurt can be prepared 2 days ahead. Once drained, transfer to airtight container and refrigerate, covered.)
In medium heavy saucepan, combine milk and sea salt with 3/4 cup water. Bring to boil over high heat, then gradually whisk in polenta, until smooth. Reduce heat to low and cook, uncovered, whisking often, until very thick, about 25 minutes. Spread into 8- x 8-inch baking dish and cool slightly. Cover and chill until firm, at least 6 hours or overnight. (Polenta can be prepared ahead and refrigerated, covered, up to 1 day.)
Bring small pan of water to boil. Add pistachios and boil, uncovered, 1 minute. Drain, then roll between towels until brown papery skins are removed. Set pistachios aside.
If using charcoal grill, open vents on bottom, then light charcoal and preheat grill to moderately high. If using gas grill, preheat burners on high with hood closed 10 minutes, then turn down to moderately high. Brush grill rack with oil.
Cut polenta into 4 rectangles and grill, turning once, until heated through and crusty, about 3 minutes per side. Remove from heat and slice each rectangle in half diagonally to produce 2 wedges.
While polenta is on grill, transfer thickened yogurt to small bowl, discarding liquid, and stir in orange blossom water and honey.
Divide polenta wedges among 4 plates, top with yogurt, and garnish with strawberries and pistachios. Serve immediately.

Jack-O'-Lantern 
2 tablespoons shortening
2 tablespoons flour
1 recipe Chocolate Cake Batter
1 recipe Creamy White Frosting
Green gel or paste food color
Orange gel or paste food color
1 small waffle ice cream cone
4 ounces (1/2 cup) black fondant
Black decorating sugar, for sprinkling
Two 6-inch half-sphere cake pans (such as Wilton Sports Ball set) or two 1 1/2-quart
ovenproof bowls
Waxed or parchment paper
Toothpicks
Wire cooling racks
Glass measuring cup
Small offset spatula
Cake plate or 4-inch round cardboard base (optional)
Plastic straw
2 decorating bags, #70 leaf tip, and #5 round tip
Rolling pin
Small, sharp knife
Small plate
Compote or shallow bowl, for serving

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly grease the bottom of each cake pan, then line it with waxed paper or parchment paper and lightly grease and flour the bottom and sides. Divide the batter between the pans and bake the cakes until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, 30 minutes. Cool the cakes completely in the pans on cooling racks and then turn them out onto the racks.
2. While the cakes are cooling, transfer 1 cup of the frosting to a glass measuring cup. Tint it green (see Decorating Tips). Tint the remaining frosting orange.
3. Using an offset spatula, spread a thin layer of the orange frosting over the flat surface of 1 cake. Invert the second cake on top of the first, joining the flat surfaces of both domes together. Transfer the assembled cake to the cardboard base, if using, or a cake plate. Cover the cake completely with the rest of the orange frosting.
4. To make rib indentations as shown in the photo, hold a plastic straw against the cake, curving it from bottom to top. Lift it off, reposition it, and press again. Repeat all around the cake. (Gently incise the ribs with a skewer if you don't have a straw.)
5. For the stem, invert the ice cream cone and, using a clean spatula, cover it with the green frosting; add more frosting at the top to give the stem a curved tip. Place the stem on the top of the cake.
6. Fit a decorating bag with a coupler and the leaf tip; add 1 cup of the green frosting to the bag. Referring to the photo, pipe several leaves around the base of the stem. Hold the bag at an angle next to the stem. Squeeze out some frosting, allowing it to fan into a wide base, then decrease the pressure and slowly pull the tip away, lifting slightly, to form a point.
7. Remove the leaf tip and replace with the round tip. Pipe tendrils around the stem and leaves. Place the tip where you want the tendril to begin. Using even pressure, squeeze out some frosting and move the tip to draw the tendril. Release the pressure and lift the tip when the tendril is the desired length.
8. Using a rolling pin, roll the fondant to 1/8 inch thick. Referring to the photo and using a small, sharp knife, cut out the features. For the eyes, cut 2 triangles about 1 1/2 inches wide at the base and 1 1/2 inches tall at the center. For the nose, cut another triangle a little smaller than the eyes. Cut the smile to be about 4 inches from tip to tip. You can draw a paper pattern first if you like.
9. Spread the black sugar on a small plate (large enough to hold the smile) using the back of the spoon. Press each cutout into the sugar and then invert the coated cutout onto the pumpkin to form the face, pressing it into the frosting. Transfer the cake to the serving dish if you have not already done so.

Soft Lady Fingers 
5 large eggs, separated, at room temperature 30 minutes
2/3 cup sugar, divided
7/8 cup all-purpose flour
Confectioners sugar for dusting
Equipment: a pastry bag with 3/4-inch

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle.
Beat yolks with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale yellow, then gradually beat in all but 1 1/2 tablespoons of sugar.
Beat at medium-high speed until pale yellow, tripled in volume, and thick enough to form a ribbon that takes 5 seconds to dissolve when beater is lifted, 5 to 7 minutes. Sprinkle flour over mixture and stir until just combined (batter will be very stiff).
Beat egg whites with cleaned beaters until they just hold soft peaks.
Add remaining 1 1/2 tablespoons sugar in a slow stream, then beat until whites hold stiff peaks.
Stir one third of whites into yolk mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Spoon batter into pastry bag.
Line a large baking sheet with parchment, piping a dab of batter under each corner to secure. Pipe 2 rows of (3 1/2-inch-long) ladyfingers (12 to 16 per row) onto sheet, piping them so they almost touch. Dust with confectioners sugar.
Bake until pale golden, dry, and soft but springy to the touch, 14 to 16 minutes. Cool completely on baking sheet.

Coconut Mint Cream Cake 
2 3/4 cups cake flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup whole milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon coconut extract (optional)
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar, divided
4 large egg whites
1 14-ounce can sweetened condensed milk
1 14-ounce can coconut cream
1/3 cup chopped fresh mint leaves
1/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons water
1 1/2 cups heavy whipping cream, chilled
Sweetened flaked coconut

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter two 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides; dust with flour. Place round of parchment paper in each pan.
Sift cake flour, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Mix milk, vanilla extract, and coconut extract in small bowl.
Beat butter and 1 cup sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in flour mixture alternately with milk mixture in several batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating just to blend after each addition.
With clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1/2 cup sugar and beat until stiff but not dry peaks form. Fold egg whites into batter in 3 additions.
Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake until tester inserted into center of cakes comes out clean, about 35 minutes.
Meanwhile, combine condensed milk and coconut cream in medium bowl.
Remove cakes from oven and let cool 5 minutes. Poke holes all over top of each cake layer with skewer. Pour coconut cream mixture by half cupfuls over cakes, allowing mixture to be absorbed before adding more. Cool completely in pans.
Stir 1/3 cup mint, sugar, and 3 tablespoons water in small saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves. Cook just until bubbles appear. Cover and remove from heat; let steep 30 minutes.
Strain syrup into large bowl, pressing on mint. Cool completely. Add 1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream to syrup and beat until firm peaks form. Turn cakes out of pans onto separate plates. Peel off parchment.
Spread 1 cup mint whipped cream on 1 cake layer. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining mint whipped cream over top and sides of cake. Sprinkle with sweetened coconut. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate.

Spiced-Up Honey Cake 
1 1/2 cups honey
3/4 cup canola oil
1 cup strong brewed coffee
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1 teaspoon ground coriander
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup honey
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons unsalted butter

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Oil a 12-cup Bundt pan or 13 x 9-inch rectangular cake pan.
2. First, make the cake: Combine the honey, oil, coffee, and vanilla in a small saucepan and heat, stirring constantly, until the mixture is well blended. Remove it from the heat and let cool.
3. Place the flour, cinnamon, ginger, nutmeg, coriander, baking soda, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl and stir to blend.
4. Place the eggs and sugar in a medium-size bowl and beat with a mixer on medium speed until the mixture is pale yellow and very thick, 5 minutes.
5. Pour the honey mixture into the egg mixture and beat until well incorporated, 2 minutes. Stop the mixer occasionally and scrape down the sides until fully incorporated, 2 minutes more. Spread the batter evenly in the prepared pan and bake until the cake springs back when lightly touched with your finger and toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, 40 to 45 minutes. Cool in the pan for 5 minutes, then place the pan on a wire rack to cool for 20 minutes. Run a long, sharp knife around the edge of the cake and invert It onto a rack to cool while you prepare the glaze.
6. Place the honey, sugar, and butter in a small saucepan and bring to a boil over medium heat, stirring constantly. Remove the glaze from the heat.
7. To glaze the cake, place it on a serving platter, Use a fork to gently poke holes all over the top of the cake. Brush on the glaze, letting it seep into the holes and down the sides. Serve the cake at room temperature.

Lemon Icebox Cake 
4 lemons
1 cup water plus additional for blanching
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar, divided
1 (14-ounce) can sweetened condensed milk
3/4 cup chilled heavy cream
1 tablespoon confectioners sugar
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 (8- by 4-inch) store-bought all-butter pound cake (3/4 to 1 pound), chilled

Remove zest (peel) from 2 lemons in wide strips with a vegetable peeler (see Tips, page 118), then cut lengthwise with a sharp knife into 1/8-inch-wide julienne strips. Reserve lemons for juicing.
Fill a 2-quart heavy saucepan halfway with water, then add julienned peel. Bring to a boil and simmer 15 minutes. Drain peel in a sieve and rinse.
Bring water (1 cup) and 1 cup granulated sugar to a boil in saucepan, stirring until sugar has dissolved. Add peel and gently simmer until translucent, about 15 minutes.
Remove peel from syrup with a slotted spoon, letting syrup drain off into saucepan. Spread out on a sheet of wax paper and cool to room temperature.
Toss peel with remaining 1/2 cup granulated sugar, stirring with a fork to coat and separate. Transfer sugared peel to clean dry sieve and shake off excess sugar, then spread out on a fresh sheet of wax paper to dry slightly. Make lemon filling while peel simmers and cools: Grate enough zest from remaining 2 lemons with a rasp to measure 2 teaspoon, then squeeze enough juice from all lemons to measure 2/3 cup. Whisk together zest, juice, and condensed milk. Chill until cold, at least 30 minutes.
Beat heavy cream with confectioners sugar and vanilla in a chilled bowl with a whisk or electric mixer until it just holds stiff peaks. assemble cake: Halve cake crosswise, then trim crust from all sides. Cut each block horizontally into 4 (1/2-inch-thick) squares. Halve each square diagonally into 2 triangles.
For each serving, layer 2 triangles with lemon filling, offsetting corners. Top cake with whipped cream and candied lemon peel.

Majestic and Moist New Year's Honey Cake 
3 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1 cup vegetable oil
1 cup honey
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
1/2 cup brown sugar
3 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup warm coffee or strong tea
1/2 cup fresh orange juice
1/4 cup rye or whisky (see Note)
1/2 cup slivered or sliced almonds (optional)
I like this cake best baked in a 9-inch angel food cake pan, but you can also make it in a 10-inch tube or bundt cake pan, a 9-by-13-inch sheet pan, or three 8-by-4 1/2-inch loaf pans.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly grease the pan(s). For tube and angel food pans, line the bottom with lightly greased parchment paper. For gift honey cakes, I use  inchcake collars inch (available from Sweet Celebrations) designed to fit a specific loaf pan. These give the cakes an appealing, professional look.
In a large bowl, whisk together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and spices. Make a well in the center and add the oil, honey, sugars, eggs, vanilla, coffee, orange juice, and rye or whisky.
Using a strong wire whisk or an electric mixer on slow speed, combine the ingredients well to make a thick batter, making sure that no ingredients are stuck to the bottom of the bowl.
Spoon the batter into the prepared pan(s) and sprinkle the top of the cake(s) evenly with the almonds. Place the cake pan(s) on 2 baking sheets stacked together and bake until the cake springs back when you touch it gently in the center. For angel and tube cake pans, bake for 60 to 70 minutes; loaf cakes, 45 to 55 minutes. For sheet-style cakes, the baking time is 40 to 45 minutes. This is a liquidy batter and, depending on your oven, it may need extra time. Cake should spring back when gently pressed.
Let the cake stand for 15 minutes before removing it from the pan. Then invert it onto a wire rack to cool completely.

Mascarpone-Filled Cake With Sherried Berries 
2 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 large eggs
1 cup well-shaken buttermilk
1/2 cup Fino (dry) Sherry
1/2 cup sugar
4 cups mixed berries, cut if large
8 ounces mascarpone (1 cup)
1 cup chilled heavy cream
1/4 cup sugar
confectioners sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter a 9-inch round cake pan (2 inches deep). Line bottom with a round of parchment paper, then butter parchment.
Sift together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy. Beat in vanilla. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. With mixer at low speed, beat in buttermilk until just combined. Add flour mixture in 3 batches, mixing after each addition until just combined.
Spread batter in cake pan, smoothing top. Rap pan on counter several times to eliminate air bubbles.
Bake until golden and a wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean, 35 to 40 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes. Run a knife around edge of cake to loosen, then invert onto a plate. Discard paper and reinvert cake onto rack to cool completely.
Bring Sherry and sugar to a boil in a small heavy saucepan, stirring until sugar has dissolved. Put berries in a bowl and pour hot syrup over them, gently tossing to coat. Let stand 15 minutes.
Beat mascarpone and cream with sugar in a large bowl using cleaned beaters until mixture just holds stiff peaks.
Halve cake horizontally with a long serrated knife. Carefully remove top half and reserve. Put bottom half on a plate, then spread evenly with all of cream and replace top half. Serve with berries.

Deep Chocolate Pound Cake 
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup sour cream
1/2 cup whole milk
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 cup honey
2 tablespoons boiling water
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup mini semisweet chocolate chips

Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 9x5x3-inch loaf pan, tapping out any excess flour.
Whisk flour, baking powder, coarse salt, and baking soda in medium bowl. Whisk sour cream and milk in small bowl.
Sift cocoa powder into another small bowl. Whisk in honey and 2 tablespoons boiling water until smooth. Cool completely.
Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in another medium bowl until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl. Beat in vanilla. Add cocoa mixture; stir until smooth, occasionally scraping down bowl. Beat in flour mixture alternately with sour cream mixture in 2 additions each until just blended. Stir in chocolate chips.
Transfer batter to prepared pan; smooth top. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 8 minutes. Remove cake from pan and cool.

Dark Gingerbread Pear Cake 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick unsalted butter
1/4 cup water
1/2 cup packed dark brown sugar
1/2 cup molasses (not robust or blackstrap)
3 large eggs
1/4 cup grated peeled ginger
1 Bosc pear
Accompaniment: whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter and flour a 9-inch cake pan, knocking out excess.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, cinnamon, allspice, and salt.
Melt butter with water.
Beat together brown sugar and molasses with an electric mixer until combined. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well. Beat in flour mixture at low speed until just combined. Add butter mixture and ginger, beating just until smooth. Pour into cake pan.
Peel pear and cut into 3/4-inch pieces. Scatter over batter. Bake until a wooden pick inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool slightly.

S'mores Cheesecake with Summer Berries 
1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs (made from 9 whole crackers finely ground in processor; 1 packet)
3 tablespoons sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
9 ounces high-quality milk chocolate (such as Lindt or Ghirardelli), chopped
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup heavy whipping cream
3 large eggs
1 cup sugar
2 large egg whites
3 tablespoons water
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/8 teaspoon salt
12 large marshmallows, cut into quarters with wet kitchen scissors
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1-pint container fresh raspberries
1 1-pint container fresh blueberries

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Mix crumbs and sugar in medium bowl. Add melted butter; stir until mixture is evenly moistened. Press onto bottom of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Bake until set, about 12 minutes. Remove from oven; cool. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over barely simmering water until smooth. Remove from over water and cool to lukewarm, stirring occasionally.
Combine cream cheese, sugar, and salt in processor and blend until smooth. With motor running, add whipping cream through feed tube and process just until blended. With motor running, add melted chocolate, then add eggs 1 at a time, blending and scraping down sides after each addition until mixture is smooth. Pour batter over crust in pan.
Bake cake until outer edge is slightly puffed and cake is barely set in center (center will look shiny and move slightly when pan is gently shaken), about 55 minutes. Transfer cake to rack. Run small sharp knife around cake to loosen. Chill uncovered until cold, 8 hours or overnight. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.
Whisk sugar, egg whites, 3 tablespoons water, cream of tartar, and 1/8 teaspoon salt to blend in large metal bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water; whisk constantly until sugar dissolves and mixture thickens and is hot to touch, about 3 minutes. Remove bowl from over water and stir in marshmallows (keep water simmering in saucepan). Let stand until marshmallows soften, about 3 minutes. Set bowl with mixture over simmering water; using hand held electric mixer, beat until stiff shiny peaks form, about 4 minutes. Beat in vanilla.
Scrape topping onto cheesecake. Using offset metal spatula, spread topping to edges of cake, swirling decoratively. Let stand until set, about 15 minutes.
Using kitchen torch, lightly brown topping in spots. (Or preheat broiler; place cake at least 4 inches from heat source and broil just until topping is lightly browned in spots, watching closely to avoid burning, about 2 minutes.) Chill cake until cold. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and keep chilled. Remove pan sides. Place cake on platter.
Mix raspberries and blueberries in medium bowl. Cut cake into wedges. Serve berry mixture alongside.

Chocolate Cake 
Shortening, as needed
2 cups all-purpose flour, plus extra for the pans
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (6 ounces) unsalted butter, at room temperature
2 cups sugar
3 large eggs, at room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups whole milk
Cake pans, as needed
Waxed or parchment paper
Paper cupcake liners (if making cupcakes)
Medium bowl
Whisk
Electric mixer
Rubber spatula
Toothpick
Wire cooling racks

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
2. Read the directions for your chosen decorated cake to see what size pans to use. Lightly grease the bottom of each cake pan, then line it with waxed paper or parchment paper and grease and lightly flour the bottom and sides. If you are making cupcakes, line the cups with paper liners.
3. In a medium bowl, whisk together the 2 cups flour, the cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder, and salt.
4. Using an electric mixer on medium to high speed, beat the butter in a large bowl for 30 seconds. With the mixer on medium speed, gradually add the sugar, about 1/4 cup at a time, beating each addition 3 to 4 minutes or until well combined. Using a rubber spatula, scrape down the sides of the bowl; continue beating on medium speed for 2 minutes more, until the mixture is smooth and creamy. Add the eggs 1 at a time, beating for 30 seconds after each addition. Beat in the vanilla extract.
5. With the mixer on low speed and beating until just combined after each addition, beat the flour mixture into the butter mixture in 3 additions, alternating with 2 additions of the milk. With the mixer on medium to high speed, beat the batter for 20 seconds more.
6. Using a rubber spatula, spread the batter in the prepared pans. Unless your project directions indicate otherwise, fill round, square, rectangular, or shaped pans two-thirds full; fill cupcake cups two-thirds full. Bake the cake(s), referring to your project for the baking time; each cake is done when a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean.
Transfer the cake in the pan to a wire rack. Cool in the pan for 10 minutes, then invert onto the rack, lift off the pan, and peel off the waxed paper. Let the cake cool completely on the rack. Remove cupcakes from the pans after cooling for 15 minutes.

Cherry Almond Shortbread Cookies 
24 dried tart cherries (about 1 1/2 ounces)
1/3 cup crème de cassis (black-currant liqueur)
1/2 cup raw almonds with skins, divided
1/2 cup all purpose flour
1/2 cup whole wheat flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup powdered sugar, sifted
1 large egg, lightly beaten

Soak cherries in cassis in small bowl at least 4 hours or overnight. Drain; pat dry.
Grind 3 tablespoons almonds in mini processor until finely ground. Finely chop remaining almonds.
Whisk all purpose flour, whole wheat flour, and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until creamy, about 2 minutes. Add ground almonds; beat until well blended, about 1 minute. Beat in flour mixture on low speed just to blend.
Scrape dough out onto sheet of parchment or waxed paper. Using paper as aid, form dough into 81/2x13/4-inch log. Brush dough all over with egg (except for ends). Scatter chopped almonds on sheet of plastic wrap. Roll log in almonds to coat. Wrap in plastic wrap and chill at least 2 hours. DO AHEAD: Dough can be made 2 days ahead. Keep refrigerated. Cover and chill cherries.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Let dough stand at room temperature 10 minutes. Unwrap dough and cut into 3/8-inch-thick slices. Place cookies on large ungreased baking sheet, spacing 1 inch apart. Place 1 cherry in center of each cookie.
Bake 10 minutes. Press cherries into cookies (cookies will have softened). Rotate baking sheet in oven and bake until cookies are lightly golden and slightly puffed, about 18 minutes longer. Cool cookies on sheet on rack 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack to cool completely. DO AHEAD: Cookies can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Caramel Pecan Cakes 
2 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups water, divided
1/2 cup pecans
1/2 stick unsalted butter, melted
1 large egg, lightly beaten
1/3 cup heavy cream
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup packed brown sugar
8 (6-ounces) ramekins
five-spice ice cream and poached tangerine slices

Bring sugar and 1/2 cup water to a boil in a 12-inch heavy skillet over medium heat, stirring until sugar has dissolved, then wash down any sugar crystals on side of skillet with a pastry brush dipped in cold water. Boil, without stirring, swirling skillet occasionally so caramel colors evenly, until dark amber. Remove from heat and carefully stir in remaining cup water (mixture will steam vigorously and may stiffen). Return to a boil and stir until caramel has completely dissolved. If necessary, simmer until just syrupy, 1 to 3 minutes. Cool to room temperature.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle.
Toast pecans in a 4-sided sheet pan in oven until fragrant and a shade darker, 8 to 10 minutes. Cool and coarsely chop.
Put 2/3 cup cooled caramel syrup in a bowl (save remainder to use as sauce) and add butter, egg, and cream, whisking well after each addition.
Sift together flour, baking soda, salt, and sugars into a large bowl. Make a well in center, then add caramel mixture and gradually whisk in dry ingredients until smooth. Fold in pecans. Chill, covered, until cold (or 12 to 24 hours for best results).
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F with rack in middle.
Butter and lightly flour ramekins, then cut out and fit a round of parchment paper in bottom of each. Arrange in a 4-sided sheet pan.
Divide batter among ramekins (about 1/4 cup each; batter will be stiff). Bake until cakes just spring back when lightly pressed, 30 to 35 minutes. Cool cakes to warm. Reheat remaining caramel. Invert cakes onto plates, then peel off parchment and spoon some of caramel on top.

Raspberry-Yogurt Cake 
3 cups unbleached all purpose flour, divided
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 3/4 cups sugar
2 tablespoons fresh orange juice
1 1/2 teaspoons almond extract, divided
1 teaspoon finely grated orange peel
3 large eggs, room temperature
1 cup plain low-fat yogurt
2 1/2 cups fresh raspberries (two 6-ounce containers)
1 cup powdered sugar
1 tablespoon (or more) water

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 12-cup Bundt pan. Whisk 2 1/2 cups flour, baking powder, and 1/4 teaspoon salt in medium bowl.
Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until creamy. Beat in orange juice, 1 teaspoon almond extract, and orange peel. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating after each addition. Mix in yogurt.
Add dry ingredients to batter and beat just until blended.
Toss 1/2 cup flour and raspberries in large bowl. Fold berry mixture into batter. Spoon batter into prepared pan; smooth top.
Bake cake until wooden skewer inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Cool 30 minutes.
Invert cake onto plate and cool.
DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.
Whisk powdered sugar, 1 tablespoon water, and 1/2 teaspoon almond extract in medium bowl. Add more water by 1/2 teaspoonfuls as needed for thick glaze. Drizzle over cake. Let stand until glaze sets.

Pineapple Upside-Down Pumpkin Gingerbread 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
2 tablespoons frozen pineapple juice concentrate, thawed
1 teaspoon mild-flavored (light) molasses
1 ripe pineapple, peeled
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1/2 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
1/2 cup canned pure pumpkin
1/2 cup boiling water
Whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 9x9x2-inch metal baking pan with nonstick spray. Combine sugar, butter, pineapple juice concentrate, and molasses in heavy small saucepan. Bring to boil over medium heat, whisking until sugar dissolves and syrup is smooth; boil 1 minute. Pour evenly into prepared pan.
Cut off one 1/3-inch-thick round from pineapple; cut out core. Place round in syrup in pan. Stand pineapple on end. Cut lengthwise into 1/3-inch-thick slices. Using 3 round cutters of different sizes, cut out rounds from pineapple slices, avoiding core. Arrange rounds close together in single layer in free-form design in syrup.
Whisk first 6 ingredients in medium bowl. Beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add sugar and beat to blend. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time. Beat in molasses, then pumpkin. Beat in dry ingredients just until blended, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl. Beat in 1/2 cup boiling water. Pour batter evenly into pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 50 minutes. Cool cake in pan 45 minutes. Place platter over pan and invert. Let stand 5 minutes. Gently lift off pan. Serve cake warm or at room temperature with whipped cream.

Upside-Down Grape and Mascarpone Cheesecake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3 1/4 cups red seedless grapes, divided
2 tablespoons frozen grape juice concentrate (with Concord grapes), thawed
1 cup sugar, divided
2 teaspoons cornstarch
1 1/2 teaspoons raspberry vinegar
1 1/2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 8-ounce container mascarpone cheese*
3 large eggs

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Puree 1 cup grapes and grape juice concentrate in blender until as smooth as possible. Pour puree into medium saucepan. Add 1/4 cup sugar and cornstarch; stir to dissolve cornstarch. Add remaining 2 1/4 cups grapes. Stir over medium heat until mixture thickens, boils, and becomes clear, 2 to 3 minutes (grapes will remain whole); mix in vinegar. Pour into prepared cake pan. Spread grapes in single layer; cool.
Beat cream cheese, flour, and 3/4 cup sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in mascarpone, then eggs, 1 at a time. Spoon batter over grape mixture.
Bake cake until just set in center, about 45 minutes. Place cake directly into refrigerator; chill uncovered until cold, at least 4 hours and up to 1 day.
Cut around cake. Place plate over pan; hold plate and pan together and invert. Lift off pan. Cut cake into wedges.
An Italian cream cheese; sold at many supermarkets and at Italian markets.

Host of Ghosts 
One purchased 9-inch angel food cake
2 recipes Seven Minute Frosting , at room temperature
Small sugar candy eyes, 2 for each ghost
10-inch cake plate, for serving
Small offset spatula
Disposable decorating bag
Assorted eggcups and salt wells, for serving

1. Place the cake on the cake plate. Reserve 1 cup of frosting to make additional ghost figures. Using an offset spatula, fill the hole in the center of the cake with frosting and then spread frosting over the top and sides in a wavy pattern.
2. Add the reserved frosting to the decorating bag; snip off the tip of the bag to create a 1/8- to 1/4-inch opening.
3. Referring to the photo, pipe as many ghosts as you like onto and around the cake and into the eggcups. For each, apply pressure to squeeze out some frosting for a base, then lift the bag slowly, decreasing the pressure until the ghost is the desired size; stop the pressure and lift off the bag. Add 2 candy eyes to each ghost.

Coconut Cake with Mascarpone Frosting 
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 2/3 cups sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) plus 3 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 large eggs, room temperature
3/4 cup whole milk
1 1/2 cups finely grated peeled fresh coconut
2 3/4 teaspoons finely grated lime peel, divided
3/4 cup mascarpone cheese* (about 6 ounces)
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
2 2/3 cups powdered sugar
1/2 cup 1-inch-long strips shaved coconut with brown inner coating left intact (about 2 ounces; use vegetable peeler)

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line bottom of 9-inch diameter springform pan with parchment paper; butter paper and pan.
Whisk flour and baking powder in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, 3/4 cup butter, and vanilla in large bowl until blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Add flour mixture alternately with milk in 2 additions each, beating until just blended. Stir in 1 1/2 cups finely grated coconut and 1 1/4 teaspoons lime peel.
Transfer mixture to prepared pan; smooth top. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 20 minutes. Cool cake in pan 20 minutes. Cut around sides to loosen; invert onto platter. Cool completely.
Using electric mixer, beat 3 tablespoons butter, 1 1/2 teaspoons lime peel, mascarpone, and cloves in large bowl. Add powdered sugar; beat just until smooth.
Spread mascarpone frosting over top of cooled cake. Garnish top edge with 1/2 cup shaved coconut. DO AHEAD Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and chill. Bring to room temperature before serving.
*An Italian cream cheese; sold at many supermarkets and at Italian markets.

Perugian-Style Chocolate Hazelnut Cheesecake 
1/4 pound wheatmeal crackers finely crushed (about 1 cup)
1 ounce fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (no more than 60% cacao if marked), grated
1/2 stick unsalted butter, melted
1/2 pound fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (no more than 60% cacao if marked), chopped
1 stick unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 pound 2 ounce cream cheese, at room temperature
1/2 cup sour cream
1/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 large eggs
2/3 cup superfine granulated sugar
1 cup hazelnuts (4 1/2 ounces), toasted loose skins rubbed off in a kitchen towel while still warm, and nuts chopped
Equipment: a 10-inch springform pan
Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream

Combine all ingredients, then press onto bottom of springform pan.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F with rack in middle.
Melt chocolate with butter, then remove from heat and whisk in cream cheese until smooth. Whisk in sour cream and vanilla.
Whisk together eggs and sugar in a large bowl until mixture has a mousse-like consistency, then stir in chocolate mixture and nuts.
Pour filling into crust and bake 1 1/2 hours. (Top will be slightly cracked.)
Cool to room temperature in pan on a rack, about 1 hour, then chill at least 1 hour. (Cake will sink slightly.)

Strawberry Shortcakes 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 cups cake flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
1/2 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup whole milk
2 large eggs
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 pounds strawberries, hulled, divided
1/4 cup water
3 tablespoons sugar, divided
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
1 1/2 tablespoons powdered sugar plus additional for sprinkling
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees . Spray 9-inch diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Sprinkle bottom and sides of pan with sugar; tap out any excess sugar. Whisk flour and baking powder in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat 1 cup sugar, cream cheese, and butter in large bowl to blend. Beat milk, eggs, and vanilla in another medium bowl to blend. Beat milk mixture into cream cheese mixture. Add dry ingredients; beat until smooth. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Sprinkle remaining 1 tablespoon sugar over top of batter.
Bake cake until golden brown on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool in pan on rack. do ahead Can be made 8 hours ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.
Place half of strawberries (about 3 cups) in processor. Using on/off turns, process until coarsely chopped. Transfer to medium saucepan; reserve processor. Add 1/4 cup water, 2 tablespoons sugar, and lemon juice to chopped berries. Bring to boil. Reduce heat to medium and simmer until strawberries are very tender, about 4 minutes. Return strawberry mixture to processor and puree until smooth. Strain sauce through fine mesh strainer into medium bowl. Cover and chill until cold, about 2 hours. do ahead Can be made 8 hours ahead. Keep chilled.
Quarter remaining strawberries. Toss with remaining 1 tablespoon sugar in another medium bowl. Let stand at room temperature until sugar dissolves and juices form, tossing occasionally, about 30 minutes. Add strawberry sauce. Cover and chill. Whip chilled whipping cream, 1 1/2 tablespoons powdered sugar, and vanilla in large bowl until peaks form. Cut cake into 8 wedges. Split each wedge horizontally in half. Place bottom of each wedge on plate. Spoon strawberry mixture over, then top with dollop of whipped cream. Place top of cake over cream. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve.

Little Lemony Ricotta Cheesecake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2/3 cup sugar
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice
4 teaspoons finely grated lemon peel
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup whole-milk ricotta cheese
2 extra-large eggs
2/3 cup purchased lemon curd

Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Spray eight 3/4-cup ramekins or custard cups with nonstick spray. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, lemon juice, and lemon peel in large bowl until sugar dissolves, about 1 minute. Add cream cheese and ricotta cheese; beat until smooth, about 1 minute (some small curds from ricotta may remain). Add eggs; beat until well blended.
Divide batter among prepared ramekins. Place ramekins on rimmed baking sheet. Bake until puffed, just set in center, and pale golden on top, about 18 minutes. Chill until cold, about 2 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep chilled.
Spread lemon curd over chilled cheesecakes and serve.

Butter Cake 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
Scant 1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 whole large egg plus 1 large egg yolk
1 1/2 teaspoons grated orange zest
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
3/4 cup whole milk
Garnish: Confectioners sugar

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter a 9-inch round cake pan, then line bottom with a round of parchment paper and butter parchment. Lightly dust with flour.
Whisk together flour (1 3/4 cups), baking powder, and salt.
Beat together butter and sugar with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add whole egg, yolk, zest, and vanilla and beat 1 minute. At low speed, mix in flour mixture and milk alternately in batches.
Spread batter in cake pan and bake until golden brown and a wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean, 35 to 40 minutes. Cool cake in pan 10 minutes, then turn out onto a rack.

Caramel-Walnut Upsidedown Banana Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 tablespoons dark corn syrup
3/4 cup walnut halves or pieces
1 3/4 cups cake flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup mashed very ripe bananas (2 to 3 large)
3 tablespoons sour cream
1 tablespoon dark rum
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Whipped cream or vanilla ice cream

Spray 8-inch round cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Bring butter, sugar, and corn syrup to boil in medium saucepan, stirring constantly until butter melts. Boil syrup 1 minute. Stir in nuts. Spread topping in prepared pan. Let topping cool completely.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Sift first 4 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and both sugars in large bowl until blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then mashed bananas, sour cream, rum, and vanilla. Beat in dry ingredients in 2 additions just until combined. Spoon batter into pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Cool 15 minutes. Cut around cake. Place platter over pan. Holding pan and platter together, turn over. Let stand 5 minutes, then gently lift off pan. Cool at least 15 minutes for topping to set. Serve warm or at room temperature with whipped cream or vanilla ice cream.

Devil Dog Cake 
2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process) plus additional for dusting
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups packed dark brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 1/3 cups water
2 large egg whites
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup light corn syrup
2 tablespoons water
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter and flour an 8-inch square cake pan (2 inches deep).
Whisk together flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt.
Beat together butter and brown sugar with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well, then beat in vanilla. Add flour mixture and water alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing until just combined.
Pour batter into cake pan and smooth top, then bake until a wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean, 45 to 55 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 1 hour. Transfer cake to a cake plate.
Combine frosting ingredients with a pinch of salt in a metal bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water and beat with a handheld electric mixer at high speed until frosting is thick and fluffy, 6 to 7 minutes. Remove bowl from heat and continue to beat until slightly cooled. Mound frosting on top of cake. Dust with additional cocoa powder.

Chocolate Hazelnut Spiced Cookies 
1 1/2 cups hazelnuts (9 ounces), toasted , loose skins rubbed off in a kitchen towel while still warm, and nuts cooled completely
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
3 tablespoons cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 tablespoon grated orange zest
3 tablespoons fresh orange juice
1 tablespoon hazelnut-flavored liqueur (preferably Frangelico)
1/2 cup confectioners sugar
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
3 tablespoons water
1 tablespoon hazelnut-flavored liqueur

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter a large baking sheet.
Pulse hazelnuts, sugar, flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, and cloves in a food processor until nuts are finely chopped, then add butter and zest and pulse until mixture resembles coarse meal with some small (roughly pea-size) butter lumps. Add juice and liqueur and pulse until dough comes together into a ball but is still crumbly. Form level tablespoons of dough into balls and flatten to about 1 1/2 inches in diameter, arranging 1 inch apart on baking sheet.
Bake cookies until puffed and slightly cracked, about 15 minutes. Transfer to a rack to cool completely.
Whisk together all icing ingredients until smooth.
Dip tops of cooled cookies into icing and transfer to a wax-paper-lined baking sheet. Let stand until icing is set, about 1 hour.

Stracciatella Tortoni Cake with Espresso Fudge Sauce 
2/3 cup finely ground amaretti (Italian almond macaroons; about 17; use a food processor)
1/4 cup sliced almonds with skin, toasted, cooled, and finely ground (in processor)
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled
3 large egg whites, at room temperature 30 minutes
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 tsp cream of tartar
1 1/4 cups chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons Disaronno Amaretto or other almond-flavored liqueur
3 1/2 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (no more than 60% cacao if marked), shaved with a vegetable peeler
1/4 cup sliced almonds with skin, toasted and cooled
1/3 cup heavy cream
3 tablespoons light corn syrup
3 tablespoons packed dark brown sugar
2 tablespoons instant-espresso powder
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
3 1/2 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (no more than 60% cacao if marked), finely chopped
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
a small offset spatula

Butter a 9- by 5-inch loaf pan and line bottom and short sides with a strip of parchment paper, leaving 4 inches of overhang on each end.
Stir together ground cookies, ground almonds, and butter, then firmly press over bottom of pan. Freeze until firm, about 30 minutes.
Beat egg whites with sugar, cream of tartar, and 1/8 tsp salt in a large metal bowl set over a large saucepan of simmering water using a handheld mixer at medium-high speed until whites hold soft peaks and an instant-read thermometer registers 170 degrees F, about 7 minutes.
Remove bowl from pan and continue to beat meringue until it just holds stiff peaks, about 2 minutes.
Beat cream with Amaretto in another bowl at medium speed using cleaned beaters until it just holds stiff peaks. Fold in half of meringue gently but thoroughly. Fold in remaining meringue along with chocolate. Spoon over crust, smoothing top with offset spatula. Sprinkle with almonds. Freeze, uncovered, until firm, about 3 hours.
Bring cream, corn syrup, brown sugar, espresso powder, cocoa, 1/8 tsp salt, and half of chopped chocolate to a boil in a small heavy saucepan over medium heat, stirring until chocolate is melted. Reduce heat and cook at a slow boil, stirring occasionally, 5 minutes. Remove from heat. Stir in vanilla and remaining chocolate until smooth. Cool to warm.
Dip bottom of loaf pan in 1 inch warm water in a roasting pan 10 seconds, then lift tortoni out of pan using parchment paper. Transfer to a platter. Peel paper from tortoni.
Let stand 5 minutes to soften slightly. Cut into 6 triangular wedges. Thin sauce with additional cream if necessary and serve with tortoni.

Cornmeal Cake with Buttermilk Ice Cream and Rhubarb Compote 
1 cup all purpose flour
1/2 cup yellow cornmeal
1 1/2 teaspoons Homemade Baking Powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 tablespoon finely grated orange peel
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs, room temperature
1/2 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 tablespoons coarsely crushed sugar cubes
Buttermilk Ice Cream
Rhubarb Compote

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter 9-inch cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Dust pan with cornmeal, tapping out excess. Sift flour, 1/2 cup cornmeal, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth and fluffy. Beat in orange peel. Gradually add 1 cup sugar and beat until light and fluffy, occasionally scraping sides of bowl. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in sour cream and vanilla. Fold in dry ingredients in 3 additions until just incorporated. Transfer batter to pan; smooth top. Sprinkle with crushed sugar.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, 25 to 30 minutes. Cool in pan on rack 10 minutes. Run knife around pan sides to loosen. Turn cake out onto plate, then invert, crushed sugar side up, onto rack. Cool completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made 8 hours ahead. Wrap in foil; let stand at room temperature.
Cut cake into wedges. Serve with Buttermilk Ice Cream and Rhubarb Compote alongside.

Lemon-Sugar Galette 
1/2 pound pizza dough, thawed if frozen
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon zest

Preheat oven to 500 degrees F with rack in upper third.
Roll out dough into a 15- by 12-inch rectangle on a lightly floured surface with a floured rolling pin. Transfer to a buttered 17- by 13-inch baking sheet and stretch to edges. Let stand 10 minutes.
Brush dough with butter, then stir together sugar and zest and sprinkle over dough. Bake, rotating sheet halfway through baking, until golden in spots and crisp, 7 to 10 minutes. Break into pieces.

Rhubarb and Raspberry Jam Roly-Poly with Vanilla Custard Sauce 
1/2 pound fresh rhubarb, cut crosswise into 1/2-inch-thick slices (about 2 cups)
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon water
1/2 cup raspberry jam
2 cups all purpose flour
2 tablespoons sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) frozen unsalted butter
2/3 cup (or more) ice water
1 tablespoon whipping cream beaten with 1 tablespoon sugar (for glaze)
Vanilla Custard Sauce

Combine rhubarb, sugar, and 1 tablespoon water in medium saucepan. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Cover; cook until rhubarb softens to thick pulp, stirring often, about 8 minutes. Mix in jam; cool. do ahead Can be made 1 week ahead. Cover; chill.
Sift flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt into large bowl. Using large holes on box grater, grate frozen butter into bowl; stir to blend. Cover and freeze at least 15 minutes. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep frozen.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Line large rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Add 2/3 cup ice water to flour mixture, tossing until soft dough forms, adding more ice water by tablespoonfuls if dough is stiff. Transfer to lightly floured surface; knead gently 5 or 6 turns (butter should remain in firm pieces). Roll out dough to 12x9-inch rectangle. Spread 6 tablespoons filling over dough, leaving 1-inch plain border on all sides. Starting at 1 long side, roll up jelly-roll style; seal seam. Place seam side down on prepared sheet. Seal ends. Brush glaze over pastry.
Bake pastry until golden (jam may leak out), about 30 minutes. Cool pastry briefly.
Cut roly-poly crosswise into 6 to 8 rounds. Serve warm with Vanilla Custard Sauce and remaining filling.

Hot Milk Cakes with Strawberries and Cream 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 extra-large eggs
2/3 cup plus 1/2 cup sugar
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract, divided
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons self-rising flour
2/3 cup whole milk
5 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 pound large strawberries, hulled, thinly sliced lengthwise
1/2 cup chilled heavy whipping cream
1 tablespoon powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Spray six 3/4-cup custard cups with nonstick spray. Using electric mixer, beat eggs in medium bowl at high speed until thick, about 3 minutes. Gradually beat in 2/3 cup sugar; beat until thick and pale yellow, about 1 minute longer. Beat in 1/2 teaspoon vanilla. Add flour and beat 30 seconds. Bring milk and butter just to boil in small saucepan, stirring until butter melts. Add hot milk mixture to batter; beat until blended and smooth, about 30 seconds. Divide batter among prepared cups. Place cups on rimmed baking sheet.
Bake cakes until tops rise (tall rounded peak will form in center of each), turn pale golden, and are firm to touch, about 16 minutes. Cool in cups at least 20 minutes. DO AHEAD: Can be made 8 hours ahead. Cool completely in cups, then cover and let stand at room temperature.
Toss strawberries and remaining 1/2 cup sugar in medium bowl to coat; let stand 20 minutes for juices to form. Using electric mixer, beat cream, powdered sugar, and remaining 1/4 teaspoon vanilla in another medium bowl until peaks form.
Remove warm or room-temperature cakes from cups and transfer to bowls. Cut off rounded top of each cake. Spoon some of berries and juices over. Cover berries with tops of cakes. Spoon whipped cream over, garnish with remaining berries and juices, and serve.

Deep Dark Chocolate Cookies 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 cups bittersweet chocolate chips (about 9 ounces), divided
3 large egg whites, room temperature
2 1/2 cups powdered sugar, divided
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Spray 2 large baking sheets with nonstick spray. Melt 1 cup chocolate chips in glass bowl in microwave, stirring twice, about 2 minutes. Cool slightly.
Using electric mixer, beat whites in large bowl to soft peaks. Gradually beat in 1 cup sugar. Continue beating until mixture resembles soft marshmallow creme. Whisk 1 cup sugar, cocoa, cornstarch, and salt in medium bowl to blend. On low speed, beat dry ingredients into meringue. Stir in lukewarm chocolate and 1/2 cup chocolate chips (dough will become very stiff).
Place 1/2 cup sugar in bowl. Roll 1 rounded tablespoon dough into ball; roll in sugar, coating thickly. Place on prepared sheet. Repeat with remaining dough, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake until puffed and tops crack, about 10 minutes. Cool on sheets on rack 10 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool.

Chocolate-Honey Tart 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
9 whole chocolate graham crackers (about 5 ounces)
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature, divided
1 tablespoon honey
1 cup whipping cream
2 teaspoons dried lavender blossoms*
12 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate chips
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 9-inch diameter tart pan with removable bottom with nonstick spray. Grind graham crackers with 3 tablespoons butter and honey in processor until fine crumbs form. Press crumbs evenly onto bottom (not up sides) of prepared tart pan. Bake until set, about 10 minutes. Cool.
Bring cream and lavender just to boil in small saucepan. Reduce heat to low and simmer 5 minutes. Place chocolate in medium saucepan. Strain hot cream mixture into saucepan with chocolate. Stir over medium-low heat just until melted and smooth. Add cocoa powder and remaining 1 tablespoon butter; stir until melted and smooth. Pour chocolate mixture over crust in tart pan. Chill at least 45 minutes (chocolate will be slightly soft after 45 minutes and firm after 2 hours). Cut into wedges and serve. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep chilled. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.
Also called culinary lavender buds; available at many natural foods stores and some farmers' markets and from Dean and Deluca<\a>

Grand Marnier Crêpe Cake 
6 large eggs
1 cup whole milk
3 cups chilled heavy cream, divided
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract, divided
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 cup confectioners sugar, divided
2 teaspoons grated orange zest , divided
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1 tablespoon Grand Marnier or Cointreau

Blend eggs, milk, 1/2 cup cream, and 1/2 teaspoon vanilla with flour, salt, 1/4 cup confectioners sugar, and 1 teaspoon zest in a blender until just smooth.
Brush a 10-inch nonstick skillet lightly with some of melted butter, then heat over medium-high heat until hot. Pour in a scant 1/4 cup batter, immediately tilting and rotating skillet to coat bottom. (If batter sets before skillet is coated, reduce heat slightly for next crêpe.) Cook until underside is golden and top is just set, 15 to 45 seconds. Loosen edge of crépe with a heatproof rubber spatula, then flip crêpev over with your fingertips and cook 15 seconds more. Transfer to a plate. Continue making crêpes, brushing skillet with butter each time and stacking on plate.
Beat remaining 2 1/2 cups cream, 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, 3/4 cup confectioners sugar, 1 teaspoon zest, and Grand Marnier in a large deep bowl with an electric mixer until cream holds stiff peaks.
Center a crêpe on a serving plate and spread with 1/4 cup cream. Continue stacking crêpes and spreading with cream, ending with a crêpe. Chill, covered, at least 4 hours and up to 24.

Lemon-Raspberry Cupcakes 
3/4 cup (12 tablespoons) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 cups powdered sugar, divided
4 1/2 teaspoons finely grated lemon peel, divided
2 large eggs
1 1/4 cups self-rising flour
1/4 cup buttermilk
4 tablespoons fresh lemon juice, divided
12 teaspoons plus 1 tablespoon seedless raspberry jam
Fresh raspberries (for garnish)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 12 muffin cups with paper liners. Using electric mixer, beat butter, 1 1/2 cups powdered sugar, and 3 teaspoons lemon peel in large bowl until blended, then beat until fluffy and pale yellow. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating to blend after each addition. Beat in half of flour. Add buttermilk and 2 tablespoons lemon juice; beat to blend. Beat in remaining flour.
Drop 1 rounded tablespoonful batter into each muffin liner. Spoon 1 teaspoon raspberry jam over. Cover with remaining batter, dividing equally.
Bake cupcakes until tester inserted halfway into centers comes out clean, about 23 minutes. Cool cupcakes in pan on rack. Meanwhile, whisk remaining 1 1/2 cups powdered sugar, 2 tablespoons lemon juice, and 1 1/2 teaspoons lemon peel in small bowl. Spoon half of icing over 6 cupcakes. Whisk 1 tablespoon raspberry jam into remaining icing. Spoon over remaining cupcakes. Let stand until icing sets, about 30 minutes. Garnish with raspberries.

Bumble's Ginger Roulade 
6 tablespoons salted butter
2/3 cup treacle or mild molasses (not blackstrap)
1/4 cup sugar
Scant 1/2 cup water
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1 large egg, separated
Confectioners sugar for dusting
1 cup chilled heavy cream
1/3 cup chopped crystallized ginger

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Line bottom and sides of a buttered 15- by 10-inch shallow baking pan (1 inch deep) with a sheet of parchment paper and butter parchment.
Melt butter with treacle, sugar, and water in a small saucepan over medium heat, stirring, then cool to room temperature, stirring occasionally.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, and ground ginger in a large bowl. Whisk in butter mixture and egg yolk until smooth.
Beat egg white in a medium bowl with an electric mixer until it just holds stiff peaks, then fold into batter gently but thoroughly.
Pour into baking pan, spreading evenly, and bake until top is golden and firm to the touch, 18 to 22 minutes. Cool cake in pan 5 minutes, then cover cake with a slightly damp kitchen towel and cool completely, about 1 hour.
Dust cake generously with confectioners sugar, then cover with a sheet of parchment, then with a baking sheet or rack. Invert cake and peel off parchment now on top.
Beat cream until it just holds stiff peaks, then spread evenly over top of cake, leaving a 1/2-inch border. Sprinkle crystallized ginger over cream. Roll up cake, starting from a short side, to make a 10-inch log, removing parchment as you go.
If desired, slices of roulade can be frozen (up to 1 week), then lightly sprinkled with turbinado sugar (such as Sugar in the Raw) and broiled (do not thaw first) in a shallow baking pan 5 to 6 inches from heat until golden, about 3 minutes.

Chocolate Marble Cheesecake 
2 tablespoon slivered blanched almonds
Vegetable oil cooking spray
6 chocolate wafers
15 ounces (1 3/4 cups) part-skim ricotta
8 ounces lowfat cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup lowfat sour cream
1 large whole egg
2 egg whites
1/4 teaspoon almond extract (or to taste)
2 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoon amaretto (if desired)
3 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon instant-espresso powder
3 tablespoon bittersweet chocolate chips

Heat oven to 350 degrees . Toast almonds on a small baking sheet for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from oven; reduce heat to 325 degrees . Coat an 8-inch springform pan with cooking spray. Wrap outside of pan in foil to prevent seepage. Process chocolate wafers and almonds in a food processor until fine crumbs. Sprinkle 2 to 3 tablespoon crumbs onto bottom of pan (just enough to coat bottom lightly). Shake pan to distribute evenly. Reserve remaining crumbs.
Purée ricotta in a food processor until smooth, about 1 minute. Add cream cheese, sugar, sour cream, egg, egg whites, almond extract, flour and salt; puree until smooth. Whisk amaretto, if desired (or same amount of hot water), 2 tablespoon hot water, cocoa powder and espresso powder in a bowl until well combined. Stir in chocolate chips. Stir 1 cup plain filling into chocolate mixture. Set aside. Pour remaining plain filling into prepared pan. Drizzle chocolate filling in a circular pattern over plain filling. Using a knife, make circular strokes to create swirls in the plain filling. Add 1 inch hot water to a shallow baking pan; place springform pan in baking pan. Bake until cheesecake is firm around the edge and slightly soft in the center, 45 to 55 minutes. Run a knife around inside of pan. Remove foil; let cool on a rack. Chill 6 hours or overnight before removing sides of pan. Press reserved crumbs onto side of cheesecake.

Dried-Apple Stack Cakes 
9 ounces unsulfured dried apples (4 cups)
4 cups unfiltered apple cider
3 cups water
1/2 teaspoon ground mace
6 tablespoons packed light brown sugar
1/2 cup whole milk
1/2 tablespoon cider vinegar
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
Pinch of ground cloves
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
6 tablespoons packed light brown sugar
1/2 cup molasses (not robust or blackstrap)
1 large egg
Equipment: 2 muffin pans with 12 (1/3- to 1/2-cup) muffin cups each
Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream

Simmer all filling ingredients and a pinch of salt in a 4- to 5-quart heavy pot, uncovered, stirring occasionally and mashing apples with a potato masher as they soften, until a thick purée forms, about 1 1/2 hours. Cool completely.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter muffin cups.
Stir together milk and vinegar and let stand 10 minutes to curdle.
Sift together flour, baking soda, salt, ginger, and cloves.
Beat butter and brown sugar with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in molasses and egg. At low speed, add flour mixture in 3 batches alternately with curdled milk, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing until each addition is just incorporated. Spread 1 heaping tablespoon batter in each muffin cup and bake just until a wooden pick inserted in center of a cake comes out clean with some crumbs adhering, 11 to 13 minutes. Cool 5 minutes in pans on racks, then invert onto racks to cool completely.
Spread about 2 tablespoons filling on top of 1 cake and invert another cake over filling, then spread a heaping tablespoon filling on top. Make 11 more stacks (you will have about 2 cups filling left over). Transfer to an airtight container and chill at least 2 days for flavors to develop. Bring to room temperature before serving.

Banana Chocolate Walnut Cake 
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick unsalted butter, softened, plus 2 tablespoons, melted and cooled
1 cup sugar, divided
2 large eggs
1 1/4 cups mashed very ripe bananas (about 3 medium)
2/3 cup plain whole-milk yogurt
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 (3 1/2- to 4-ounce) bar 70%-cacao bittersweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
1 cup walnuts (3 ounces), toasted , cooled, and coarsely chopped
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter a 9-inch square cake pan.
Stir together flour, baking soda, and salt.
Beat together softened butter (1 stick) and 3/4 cup sugar in a medium bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale and fluffy, then beat in eggs 1 at a time until blended. Beat in bananas, yogurt, and vanilla (mixture will look curdled).
With mixer at low speed, add flour mixture and mix until just incorporated.
Toss together chocolate, nuts, cinnamon, melted butter, and remaining 1/4 cup sugar in a small bowl. Spread half of banana batter in cake pan and sprinkle with half of chocolate mixture. Spread remaining batter evenly over filling and sprinkle remaining chocolate mixture on top.
Bake until cake is golden and a wooden pick inserted in center of cake comes out clean, 35 to 40 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 30 minutes, then turn out onto rack and cool completely, right side up.

Coconut-Chocolate Chip Cupcakes 
1 cup whole wheat pastry flour
1 cup unbleached all purpose flour
1/2 cup coconut milk powder (sifted, then measured)
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 3-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 drops coconut flavoring or 3/4 teaspoon coconut extract
5 large eggs
2 tablespoons whole milk
1 3/4 cups bittersweet chocolate chips (10 to 11 ounces)
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup coconut milk powder (sifted, then measured)
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 drops coconut flavoring or 1/2 teaspoon coconut extract
4 to 5 cups powdered sugar (16 to 20 ounces)
4 tablespoons (or more) whole milk
Flaked sweetened coconut (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 20 standard (1/3-cup) muffin cups with paper liners. Sift first 5 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and cream cheese in large bowl until smooth. Gradually beat in sugar, then vanilla extract and coconut flavoring. Beat in dry ingredients (batter will be stiff). Add eggs 1 at a time, beating to blend after each addition. Beat in milk, then stir in chocolate chips. Spoon scant 1/3 cup batter into each paper liner. Bake cupcakes until tester inserted into centers comes out clean, about 22 minutes. Let cool 10 minutes, then turn cupcakes out of pan and cool on rack.
Using electric mixer, beat butter, coconut milk powder, and salt in large bowl until smooth. Beat in vanilla extract and coconut flavoring. Beat in enough powdered sugar, 1 cup at a time, to form very thick frosting. Beat in milk, 1 tablespoon at a time, until frosting is thin enough to spread.
Spread frosting on cupcakes. Sprinkle with flaked coconut, if desired. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Store cupcakes airtight at room temperature.

Cranberry-Maple Pudding Cake 
2 cups fresh or frozen cranberries
1 cup pure maple syrup (grade B or grade A dark amber)
2/3 cup heavy whipping cream
3/4 teaspoon finely grated orange peel
Pinch plus 1/2 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup all purpose flour
1/3 cup yellow cornmeal (preferably stone-ground)
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 large egg
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup whole milk
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Crème Fraîche, softly whipped cream, or vanilla ice cream

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 400 degrees F. Combine first 4 ingredients and pinch of salt in medium saucepan. Bring to boil, stirring occasionally. Reduce heat and simmer 1 minute. Remove from heat.
Whisk flour, cornmeal, baking powder, and 1/2 teaspoon salt in medium bowl. Whisk egg and sugar in another medium bowl. Whisk milk, melted butter, and vanilla into egg mixture. Add flour mixture to egg mixture; whisk to blend. Pour warm cranberry mixture into 11x7x2-inch or 8x8x2-inch glass or ceramic baking dish. Pour batter over.
Bake cake until golden and cranberry mixture bubbles at edges, about 28 minutes. Cool 15 minutes. Serve cake warm topped with crème fraîche, whipped cream, or vanilla ice cream.

Brown Butter Pecan Shortbread 
1 cup pecans, toasted
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, divided
2 cups sifted all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Grind pecans in processor until coarse meal forms. Melt 1/2 cup butter in small skillet over medium heat. Cook until dark amber, stirring often, about 6 minutes (do not burn). Pour through fine strainer into small bowl. Chill just until firm, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Whisk flour and salt to blend. Using electric mixer, beat brown butter, 1/2 cup butter, and sugar in large bowl until creamy. Beat in vanilla, then nuts. Gradually beat in flour mixture on low speed just to blend.
Transfer dough to sheet of parchment paper. Form dough into rectangle. Place second sheet of parchment paper over dough. Press or roll dough into 12x8- inch rectangle. Remove top sheet of parchment. Transfer dough on parchment to baking sheet. Using fork, pierce dough all over, spacing 1 inch apart.
Bake shortbread until golden brown and firm to touch, about 55 minutes. Leaving shortbread on baking sheet, cut lengthwise into 8 strips. Cut each strip crosswise into quarters. Cool 10 minutes on sheet on rack. Transfer cookies to rack to cool completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Pecan Fig Bourbon Cake 
1 pound dried Black Mission figs, hard tips discarded
2 cups water
1/2 cup bourbon
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
3 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon grated nutmeg
1 3/4 cups pecans (7 ounces)
2 cups packed light brown sugar
1 cup vegetable oil
3 large eggs, at room temperature 30 minutes
1 cup confectioners sugar
4 1/2 tablespoons heavy cream
2 teaspoons bourbon
1/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
Equipment: a 12-cup bundt pan

Simmer figs in water in a heavy medium saucepan, covered, until figs are tender and most of liquid is absorbed, 35 to 40 minutes. Purée in a food processor with bourbon and vanilla. Cool to warm.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter and flour bundt pan, knocking out excess flour.
While oven preheats, sift together flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, and nutmeg.
Lightly toast pecans in a shallow baking pan in oven, 8 to 10 minutes, then cool and coarsely chop. Leave oven on.
Beat together brown sugar, oil, and eggs in a large bowl with an electric mixer until thick and creamy, about 3 minutes. Stir in fig mixture. At low speed, mix in flour mixture until just incorporated, then fold in pecans.
Pour batter into bundt pan and bake until a wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean, 1 to 1 1/4 hours. Cool cake completely in pan on a rack, then invert onto a plate.
Sift confectioners sugar into a bowl, then whisk in remaining icing ingredients until smooth. Drizzle over cake.

Pear Maple Johnnycake 
1 stick unsalted butter
2 tablespoons sugar
4 firm-ripe Anjou pears, peeled, halved lengthwise, and cored
1/2 teaspoon grated nutmeg, divided
1 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 cup stone-ground cornmeal (preferably white)
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup whole milk
1/4 cup pure maple syrup (preferably dark amber or Grade B)
2 large eggs, lightly beaten
Accompaniments: pure maple syrup (for drizzling); sour cream

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F with rack in middle.
Melt butter in a 12-inch nonstick skillet. Brush a 9-inch cake pan (2 inches deep) with 1 tablespoon melted butter and reserve 6 tablespoons in a small bowl. Sprinkle sugar evenly over butter remaining in skillet. Arrange pears, cut sides up, in skillet and sprinkle with 1/8 teaspoon nutmeg. Cook over medium heat 5 minutes, then turn pears over and sprinkle with 1/8 teaspoon nutmeg. Cook until liquid pears give off has evaporated and cut sides are lightly browned, 8 to 10 minutes more.
Transfer pears, cut sides down, to cake pan.
Whisk together flour, cornmeal, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and remaining 1/4 teaspoon nutmeg in a bowl. Whisk in milk, syrup, eggs, and reserved butter just until smooth. Pour over pears and bake until golden and a wooden pick inserted in center of cake comes out clean, 25 to 30 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 15 minutes, then run a knife around edge of cake to loosen and invert onto a platter.

Pecan Shortbread Cookies 
1 2/3 cups pecan halves (6 ounces)
2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Toast pecans in oven, then cool. Leave oven on.
Pick out about 36 of the best-looking pecan halves for topping cookies and finely chop remainder.
Blend together butter, sugars, vanilla, and salt in a bowl with a fork until combined well. Stir in flour and chopped pecans until a soft dough forms (dough will be sticky).
Form 1-inch balls of dough and arrange 2 inches apart on 2 ungreased baking sheets. Flatten balls to 1/3 inch thick using bottom of a glass (flour it if necessary), then push a pecan half onto center of each cookie.
Bake, 1 sheet at a time, until edges are golden, about 20 minutes. Cool cookies on sheet 5 minutes, then transfer to a rack to cool.

Toasted-Almond Cookies 
2 large egg whites, at room temperature 30 minutes
1/2 stick unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
6 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 ounces sliced almonds (1 cup), toasted and cooled
Equipment: a 17- by 11-inch nonstick bakeware liner such as Silpat

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle.
Blend together egg whites, butter, sugar, flour, vanilla, and salt in a food processor just until smooth.
Put liner on a baking sheet. Using 2 teaspoons batter per cookie, make 6 mounds, spacing them 3 inches apart, then spread into 4 1/2- to 5-inch rounds with back of a spoon (they will be very thin but try to spread batter as evenly as possible). Sprinkle each round with about 1/2 tablespoon almonds.
Bake cookies until golden-brown, 7 to 9 minutes. Let stand on baking sheet 1 minute, then, working quickly, remove each cookie with a metal spatula and drape over a rolling pin or a wine bottle (you will need 2 pins or bottles) to form a curved shape. Let stand until crisp, about 20 minutes, then transfer to a rack to cool completely.
Cool liner and baking sheet before making more cookies.

Red Velvet Cupcakes with Creamy Vanilla Icing 
3 1/2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, softened
2 cups sugar
3 large eggs, at room temperature
6 tablespoons red food coloring
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1 1/2 cups buttermilk
1 1/2 teaspoons cider vinegar
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 recipe Creamy Vanilla Frosting

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease and lightly flour three 9- by 2-inch round cake pans, then line the bottoms with waxed paper.
To make the cake: In a small bowl, sift the cake flour and set aside. In a large bowl, on the medium speed of an electric mixer, cream the butter and sugar until very light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition. In a small bowl, whisk together the red food coloring, cocoa, and vanilla. Add to the batter and beat well.
In a measuring cup, stir the salt into the buttermilk. Add to the batter in three parts alternating with the flour. With each addition, beat until the ingredients are incorporated, but do not overbeat. In a small bowl, stir together the cider vinegar and baking soda. Add to the batter and mix well. Using a rubber spatula, scrape down the batter in the bowl, making sure the ingredients are well blended and the batter is smooth.
Divide the batter among the prepared pans. Bake for 30-40 minutes, or until a cake tester inserted in the center of the cake comes out clean. Let the layers cool in the pans for 1 hour. Remove from the pans and cool completely on a wire rack.
When the cake has cooled, spread the frosting between the layers, then ice the top and sides of the cake with Creamy Vanilla Frosting .

Mile-High Chocolate Cake 
5 ounces fine-quality unsweetened chocolate, chopped
2 1/4 sticks unsalted butter, softened
2 3/4 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 large eggs, at room temperature 30 minutes
1 cup granulated sugar
1 cup packed light brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
2 cups sour cream
1 cup sugar
6 tablespoons all-purpose flour
6 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
1 1/2 cups whole milk
4 ounces fine-quality unsweetened chocolate, finely chopped
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
6 sticks (1 1/2 pound) unsalted butter, at room temperature
Equipment: 2 (8- by 2-inch) round cake pans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter cake pans, then line bottom of each with a round of parchment paper and butter parchment. Flour pans, knocking out excess.
Melt chocolate with butter, then cool.
Sift together flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder, and salt.
Beat eggs, sugars, and vanilla in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale and thick, 3 to 5 minutes. At low speed, mix in melted chocolate until incorporated, then add flour mixture in 3 batches alternately with sour cream, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing until each addition is just incorporated. Spread batter evenly in pans and rap pans several times on counter to eliminate air bubbles.
Bake until cakes pull away from sides of pans and a wooden pick inserted in center of each comes out clean, 40 to 50 minutes.
Cool in pans on a rack 10 minutes, then run a knife around edges of pans. Invert onto racks and discard parchment, then cool completely, about 1 hour.
Whisk together sugar, flour, cocoa powder, and a pinch of salt in a small heavy saucepan over medium heat, then add milk and cook, whisking constantly, until mixture boils and is smooth and thick, 3 to 5 minutes. Remove from heat and whisk in chocolate and vanilla until smooth. Transfer to a bowl to cool to room temperature, covering surface with parchment paper to prevent a skin from forming.
Beat butter with an electric mixer until creamy, then add cooled chocolate mixture a little at a time, beating until frosting is fluffy and spreadable.
Cut each cake horizontally into 2 layers with a long serrated knife. Put 1 layer on a cake stand or large plate and spread top with 1 1/4 cups frosting. Repeat with 2 more layers, then add remaining layer and spread top and side of cake with remaining frosting.

Caramel Cake 
2 cups plus 2 tablespoons sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 large eggs, at room temperature 30 minutes
1 cup well-shaken buttermilk
1 cup heavy cream
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
Equipment: a candy thermometer

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter an 8-inch square cake pan and line with a square of parchment paper, then butter parchment.
Sift together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt.
Beat butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale and fluffy, then beat in vanilla. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. At low speed, beat in buttermilk until just combined (mixture may look curdled). Add flour mixture in 3 batches, mixing until each addition is just incorporated.
Spread batter evenly in cake pan, then rap pan on counter several times to eliminate air bubbles. Bake until golden and a wooden pick inserted in center of cake comes out clean, 35 to 40 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes, then run a knife around edge of pan. Invert onto rack and discard parchment, then cool completely, about 1 hour.
Bring cream, brown sugar, corn syrup, and a pinch of salt to a boil in a 1 1/2-quart heavy saucepan over medium heat, stirring until sugar has dissolved. Boil until glaze registers 210 to 212 degrees F on thermometer, 12 to 14 minutes, then stir in vanilla.
Put rack with cake in a shallow baking pan and pour hot glaze over top of cake, allowing it to run down sides. Cool until glaze is set, about 30 minutes.

Fresh Coconut Layer Cake 
2 (1 1/2-pound) coconuts
1/4 cup sugar
3 1/3 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups whole milk
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon pure almond extract
2 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1 3/4 cups sugar, divided
7 large egg whites, at room temperature 30 minutes
3 large egg whites, at room temperature 30 minutes
2 1/4 cups sugar
3/4 cup water
1 1/2 tablespoons light corn syrup
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
Equipment: 3 (9- by 2-inch) round cake pans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with racks in upper and lower thirds.
Pierce softest eye of each coconut with a small screwdriver and collect liquid in 2 separate bowls to sample. If either tastes rancid, discard that coconut and liquid and Start over with another. Strain liquid from 2 coconuts through a dampened-paper-towel-lined sieve into a 1-cup measure and set coconuts aside. (You should have about 3/4 cup liquid. If not, add water.) Bring to a simmer with sugar and a pinch of salt in a small saucepan, stirring until sugar has dissolved. Cool and reserve.
Bake coconuts on lower rack 15 minutes. Leave oven on. Break shells with a hammer, then remove flesh with screwdriver, prying it out carefully. Peel brown membrane from flesh with a vegetable peeler. Coarsely grate enough coconut on large holes of a box grater to measure 5 cups.
Butter cake pans, then line bottom of each with a round of parchment paper and butter parchment. Flour pans, knocking out excess.
Sift together flour (3 1/3 cups), baking powder, and salt.
Stir together milk and extracts.
Beat butter and 1 1/2 cups sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. At low speed, add flour mixture in 3 batches alternately with milk mixture, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing until each addition is just incorporated.
Beat egg whites in another large bowl with cleaned beaters at medium speed until they just hold soft peaks. Beat in remaining 1/4 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, then beat until whites just hold stiff, glossy peaks. Stir one third of whites into batter, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Spread batter evenly in pans and rap pans on counter several times to eliminate air bubbles.
Place 2 pans on upper rack and 1 pan on lower rack and bake 20 minutes. Switch position of pans and bake until golden and a wooden pick inserted in center of each cake comes out clean, 10 to 15 minutes more. Cool cakes in pans on racks 5 minutes, then run a knife around edges of pans and invert cakes onto racks. Discard parchment and cool completely, about 1 hour.
Beat together egg whites, sugar, water, corn syrup, cream of tartar, and salt in a large deep bowl with a handheld mixer (clean beaters if necessary) until combined. Set bowl over a pot of simmering water and beat mixture at high speed until it holds stiff, glossy peaks, 5 to 7 minutes. (Humid weather may necessitate additional beating time.) Remove bowl from heat, then add vanilla and beat until frosting is cooled and very thick, 6 to 10 minutes. Transfer 2 1/3 cups frosting to another bowl and stir in 2 cups coconut to make filling.
Put 1 cake layer on a cake stand or large plate. Brush top with one third of reserved coconut syrup, then spread with half of filling. Repeat with another layer, more syrup, and remaining coconut filling, then top with third layer. Brush top with remaining syrup, then cover cake with remaining frosting and coat with remaining coconut, gently pressing to help it adhere.

Buttermilk Cookies 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon grated lemon zest
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2/3 cup well-shaken buttermilk
1 1/2 cups confectioners sugar
3 tablespoons well-shaken buttermilk
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter 2 large baking sheets.
Whisk together flour, zest, baking soda, and salt.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in vanilla. Mix in flour mixture and buttermilk alternately in batches at low speed, beginning and ending with flour mixture, until smooth.
Drop level tablespoons of dough about 1 1/2 inches apart onto baking sheets. Bake, 1 sheet at a time, until cookies are puffed and edges are golden, 12 to 15 minutes per batch. Cool cookies on sheets 1 minute, then transfer cookies to racks.
Whisk together all glaze ingredients and brush onto tops of warm cookies.
Let stand until cookies are completely cooled and glaze is set.

Citrus Pound Cake 
2 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon grated orange zest
1 teaspoon grated lemon zest
2 sticks (1/2 pound) unsalted butter, softened
4 large eggs, at room temperature 30 minutes
2 teaspoons fresh orange juice
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
Garnish: confectioners sugar for dusting

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter an 8 1/2- by 4 1/2-inch loaf pan.
Sift together flour, baking powder, and salt.
Mix together sugar and zests with an electric mixer at low speed until sugar is evenly colored, then add butter and beat at high speed until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes.
Beat in eggs 1 at a time at medium speed, scraping down side of bowl frequently, then beat in juices and vanilla. At low speed, mix in flour mixture until just incorporated.
Spread batter in loaf pan and rap pan several times on counter to eliminate air bubbles. Bake until golden and a wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean, 1 to 1 1/4 hours. Cool in pan on a rack 30 minutes, then run a knife around edge of pan and invert cake onto rack. Cool completely, top side up.

Mini Paris Cupcakes 
3/4 cup self-rising flour
2/3 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
2 eggs
1/2 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 drop red food coloring
3–4 cups confectioners' sugar

Line 12 mini muffin tins with mini muffin papers. In a small bowl, combine flours. In another bowl, cream the butter and sugar together, beating until fluffy. Add eggs and beat well. Add half flour mixture and beat well, then add milk and vanilla and beat again. Add remaining flour mixture and beat until completely incorporated. Fill muffin papers about 3/4 full. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Bake for 10 to 15 minutes. Remove cupcakes from oven and let cool.
Place butter, milk, vanilla, food coloring, and 2 cups of the confectioners' sugar in a mixing bowl. Beat on medium speed until smooth and creamy. Gradually add remaining sugar until light and fluffy.
Ice tops of cupcakes with pink frosting. Serve on a beautiful tray or tiered cake plate.

Whole Wheat S'more Cookies 
3 cups whole wheat flour or white whole wheat flour
1 1/2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 large eggs
1/2 cup buttermilk
1 tablespoon robust-flavored (dark) molasses
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1 1/2 cups milk chocolate chips (about 9 ounces)
1 cup mini marshmallows
3/4 cup coarsely chopped walnuts

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 3 large rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Whisk flour, sugar, salt, and baking soda in large bowl. Whisk eggs, buttermilk, molasses, and vanilla extract in medium bowl; whisk in butter. Add egg mixture to dry ingredients, stirring until dough is evenly moistened. Stir in chocolate chips, marshmallows, and nuts.
Drop cookie dough by rounded tablespoonfuls onto prepared sheets, spacing about 3 inches apart (about 12 cookies per sheet). Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until golden brown, dry to touch, but still slightly soft, about 15 minutes. Let cookies cool on sheets 10 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool (cookies will firm up). DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.

Pistachio Cake 
3/4 cup unsalted shelled pistachios (approximately 4 ounces; not dyed red)
1 cup all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup whole milk
1/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
3 large eggs
2 tablespoons finely grated orange zest (from 3 medium oranges)

Arrange oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter round metal pan and line bottom with waxed paper. Butter paper, then dust pan with flour, knocking out excess.
Using food processor, pulse pistachios until finely ground, about 40 seconds. (Do not overprocess, or mixture will become paste.) Add flour, baking powder, cardamom, and salt and pulse briefly to combine.
In small bowl, combine milk and vanilla.
In large bowl using electric mixer at moderate speed, beat together butter and sugar until light and fluffy, 1 1/2 to 2 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Reduce speed to low and add pistachio and milk mixtures alternately in batches, beginning and ending with pistachio mixture and beating after each addition just until combined. Add orange zest and beat just until combined.
Spread batter evenly in pan and bake until wooden skewer inserted in center of cake comes out clean, 30 to 40 minutes. Cool in pan on rack 10 minutes, then run knife around cake to loosen and invert onto rack. Remove paper and serve warm or at room temperature with vanilla ice cream or whipped cream.

Meringue Stars 
3 large egg whites, at room temperature 30 minutes, divided
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
3 pinches of cream of tartar, divided
3/4 cup superfine granulated sugar, divided
1 1/2 teaspoons instant-espresso powder
2 teaspoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1 (3 1/2-ounce) bar 70%-cacao bittersweet chocolate, melted
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
Equipment: 3 (12-inch) disposable pastry bags; a 1/2-inch star tip

Preheat oven to 200 degrees F with racks in upper, middle, and lower thirds of oven (or use 2 racks and bake in batches). Line 2 or 3 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Beat 1 egg white with vanilla (for vanilla meringues) and a pinch each of cream of tartar and salt with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until it just holds soft peaks. Add 2 tablespoons superfine sugar, a little at a time, beating, then increase speed to high and beat until meringue holds stiff, glossy peaks. Fold in 2 tablespoons superfine sugar gently but thoroughly.
Transfer meringue to a pastry bag fitted with tip, then dab some meringue under corners of parchment on all baking sheets to secure to sheets. Pipe 1-inch-wide stars (1 inch high) about 1/2 inch apart.
Make coffee meringues using same amounts and procedure as above but using espresso powder (1 1/2 teaspoons) in place of vanilla.
Sift cocoa through a fine-mesh sieve and whisk together with 2 tablespoons superfine sugar.
Beat remaining egg white with a pinch each of cream of tartar and salt with mixer at medium-high speed until it just holds soft peaks. Add remaining 2 tablespoons superfine sugar, a little at a time, beating, then increase speed to high and beat until meringue holds stiff, glossy peaks. Fold in cocoa mixture gently but thoroughly.
Transfer meringue to a pastry bag and pipe more stars.
Bake, switching position of upper and lower sheets halfway through baking, until dry, crisp, and firm, 1 1/2 to 2 hours. (Meringues are done when they release from parchment.)
Turn off oven and cool meringues in oven with door propped open about 1/2 inch using handle of a wooden spoon 1 hour, then slide parchment with meringues onto racks to cool completely.
Line a large baking sheet with parchment or wax paper.
Stir together chocolate and vegetable oil until completely smooth. Peel meringues off parchment, then dip bottom of each into chocolate, allowing excess to drip off. Transfer meringues to lined baking sheet, arranging as close together as possible, and when baking sheet is full, freeze meringues just until chocolate is set, about 3 minutes. Remove meringues from freezer.

Malted Milk Chocolate Cheesecake 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, softened
One 10-ounce package butter biscuits, wafers, or shortbread cookies
1/3 cup walnuts
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
4 ounces (8 tablespoons, 1 stick) unsalted butter, melted and coole
14 ounces milk chocolate, finely chopped
1/2 cup heavy whipping cream
1/2 cup malted milk powder
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
1 cup granulated sugar
4 extra-large eggs, at room temperature
1 cup sour cream
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1 quart boiling water
Essential Gear: 9 1/2-inch round springform pan, heavy-duty aluminum foil, food processor or rolling pin, double boiler, small saucepan, whisk, electric stand mixer with flat beater attachment, or large mixing bowl and handheld mixer, two rubber spatulas, fine-mesh strainer, 12-inch round cake pan or large roasting pan, cooling rack

Center a rack in the oven and preheat it to 300 degrees F.
Using a paper towel or your fingertips, generously butter the inside of the springform pan. Use a double layer of heavy-duty aluminum foil to wrap tightly around the bottom of the pan. This prevents any water from the water bath seeping into the pan.
In the work bowl of a food processor fitted with the steel blade, combine the cookies, walnuts, and sugar and pulse until the cookies are finely ground, about 2 minutes. Or place the cookies in a sturdy plastic bag and seal it. Use a rolling pin to crush the cookies to a very fine crumb consistency. Finely chop the walnuts and add them with the sugar to the cookies, seal the bag, and shake to blend together evenly.
Transfer the cookie crumb mixture to a medium bowl and add the butter. Use a rubber spatula or a spoon to toss the mixture together to moisten all of the cookie crumbs.
Transfer the crust to the prepared springform pan and use your fingertips to press it into the bottom and partway up the sides of the pan. Chill the crust while preparing the cheesecake batter.
Place the milk chocolate in the top of a double boiler over low heat. Stir often with a rubber spatula to help melt evenly. Remove the top pan of the double boiler and wipe the bottom and sides very dry.
Or place the milk chocolate in a microwave-safe bowl and melt on low power for 30-second bursts. Stir with a rubber spatula after each burst.
Place the cream in a small saucepan and bring to a boil over medium heat. Turn off the heat, add the malted milk powder, and whisk to distribute evenly. Cover the pan and let the mixture steep for 10 minutes, then strain the cream.
Place the cream cheese in the bowl of an electric stand mixer or in a large bowl. Use the flat beater attachment or a hand-held mixer to beat the cream cheese on medium speed until it's fluffy, about 2 minutes.
Add the sugar and cream together very well. Stop occasionally and scrape down the sides and bottom of the bowl with a rubber spatula.
One at a time, add the eggs to the cream cheese mixture, beating well after each addition. At first the eggs will sit on top of the cream cheese mixture, but stop often to scrape down the sides and bottom of the mixing bowl with a rubber spatula. This will help the mixture to blend. The mixture may also look curdled as the eggs are added, but as you stop and scrape down the bowl, the mixture will smooth out.
Add the sour cream and vanilla to the cream cheese mixture and stir together to combine.
Add the strained cream to the batter and blend thoroughly, then add the melted milk chocolate and mix together.
Transfer the batter into the crust in the springform pan. Use a rubber spatula to smooth and even the top.
Place the springform pan in the larger cake pan or roasting pan and set the pan on the oven rack. Carefully pour the boiling water into the bottom pan until it reaches halfway up the side of the springform pan. Baking the cake in a water bath cushions it from the heat and adds extra moisture to the oven, which keeps the top of the cake from cracking.
Bake the cake for 1 hour and 45 minutes, until the top is set, but jiggles slightly. Remove the pan from the oven and transfer the cheesecake to a rack.
Remove the foil and let the cheesecake cool completely. Cover the top of the cheesecake with waxed paper and wrap the pan tightly with aluminum foil. Refrigerate the cake for at least 6 hours before serving. To unmold the cheesecake, dip a thin-bladed knife in hot water and dry, then run it around the inner edge of the pan. Release the clip on the rim of the pan and gently lift it off the cake.
Store the cheesecake, covered with waxed paper and tightly wrapped with aluminum foil, in the refrigerator up to 4 days. To freeze up to 2 months, wrap the cake pan tightly in several layers of plastic wrap and aluminum foil. Use a large piece of masking tape and an indelible marker to label and date the contents. If frozen, defrost overnight in the refrigerator and bring to room temperature at least 30 minutes before serving.
Add 1 1/2 cups finely chopped walnuts to the batter before turning it into the pan.
Drizzle the top of the cooled and chilled cheesecake with fine lines or designs of milk chocolate.
Serve each slice of cheesecake with a dollop of lightly sweetened whipped cream and scatter about 1 teaspoon of shaved milk chocolate over the cream.

Chocolate Sambuca Crinkle Cookies 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
12 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
1/2 stick unsalted butter
2 large eggs
1/2 cup walnuts, coarsely chopped
1/2 cup Sambuca or other anise-flavored liqueur
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
1 cup confectioners sugar

Sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. Melt chocolate with butter in a metal bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water, stirring until smooth. Lightly whisk together eggs, walnuts, Sambuca, and granulated sugar in another bowl. Stir in flour mixture and chocolate (dough will be thin). Chill, covered, until firm, about 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Sift confectioners sugar onto a plate. Roll heaping tablespoons of dough into balls and roll balls, as formed, in confectioners sugar to generously coat. Arrange balls 2 inches apart on 2 lightly buttered baking sheets and bake in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until puffed and cracked but centers are still a bit soft, 10 to 12 minutes total. Transfer to racks to cool.

Double-Chocolate Sandwich Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1/2 pound) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 1/2 tablespoons light corn syrup
3/4 pound fine-quality white chocolate, melted
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
Equipment: a 1 3/4-inch fluted round cookie cutter
Garnish: decorative sugar (optional)

Whisk together flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, and salt.
Beat butter and sugar with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy, then beat in yolk and vanilla. At low speed, mix in flour mixture in 3 batches just until a dough forms. Divide dough in half and form each piece into a 6-inch square, then chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, 2 to 3 hours.
Bring cream and corn syrup just to a simmer in a small heavy saucepan, then stir into melted chocolate. Stir in butter and vanilla until smooth. Cover surface with parchment paper and chill, stirring occasionally, until very thick, about 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter 2 large baking sheets.
Roll out 1 piece of dough between sheets of parchment paper into a 14- by 10-inch rectangle (1/8 inch thick). Slide dough in parchment onto a tray and freeze until dough is firm, about 10 minutes. Repeat with remaining dough.
Cut out as many rounds as possible from first chilled square with cutter, reserving and chilling scraps, then quickly transfer cookies to a buttered baking sheet, arranging them 1/2 inch apart. (If dough becomes too soft, return to freezer until firm.)
Sprinkle half of cookies with decorative sugar (if using), then bake cookies until baked through and slightly puffed, 10 to 12 minutes. Cool on sheet on rack 5 minutes, then transfer to rack to cool completely (cookies will crisp as they cool).
Make more cookies with remaining dough and scraps (reroll only once).
Beat ganache with an electric mixer at high speed just until light and fluffy. Transfer to a sealable plastic bag (snip off 1/8 to 1/4 inch from 1 corner with scissors). Pipe ganache onto flat sides of plain cookies, then top with sugared cookies to make sandwiches. Chill, layered between sheets of parchment, in an airtight container until filling is set, at least 1 hour.

Brownie Thins 
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup sugar
1 large egg
3 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
Pinch of coarse kosher salt
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/4 cup chopped pistachios

Position rack in lowest third of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 baking sheets. Place butter and chocolate in medium microwave-safe bowl. Microwave on medium-high power until almost completely melted, about 1 minute. Whisk until smooth. Add sugar and egg; whisk until smooth, about 1 minute. Add flour, both extracts, and salt; stir just to blend. Let batter stand 10 minutes.
Scoop rounded teaspoonfuls batter onto prepared baking sheets, spacing apart (12 per sheet). Spray sheet of plastic wrap lightly with nonstick spray. Place, sprayed side down, over cookies. Using fingers, press each mound into 21/2- to 2 3/4-inch round. Remove plastic wrap. Sprinkle pistachios over rounds. Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until slightly darker at edges and firm in center, about 7 minutes. Cool on sheet 2 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack; cool completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made 5 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Cranberry Cinnamon Clafoutis 
1 cup dried cranberries
1 cup tawny Port
1/3 cup rye whiskey or brandy
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
3 large eggs
1 cup whole milk
3/4 stick unsalted butter, melted
1/2 cup sugar
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon sugar mixed with
1/8 teaspoon cinnamon

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F with rack in upper third. Butter a 9-inch shallow baking dish.
Briskly simmer cranberries, Port, whiskey, and cinnamon in a small heavy saucepan, uncovered, stirring occasionally, until almost syrupy, 12 to 15 minutes. Pour into baking dish.
Blend together eggs, milk, butter, sugar, flour, vanilla, and salt in a blender and pour over cranberries, then sprinkle with cinnamon sugar. Bake until slightly puffed and set in center, about 35 minutes. Cool clafoutis briefly on a rack.

Jam Crumb Cake 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup sugar
1 3/4 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 stick unsalted butter, melted
1/2 cup milk
1 large egg
1/2 cup raspberry jam or preserves
3/4 stick unsalted butter, melted
1/4 cup packed brown sugar
1/4 cup granulated sugar
3/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F with rack in middle. Generously butter a 9-inch square or round cake pan.
Whisk together flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt.
Whisk together butter, milk, and egg in a large bowl, then whisk in flour mixture until just combined. Pour batter into cake pan. Dollop jam all over surface, then swirl into batter with spoon.
Whisk together butter, sugars, cinnamon, and salt until smooth. Stir in flour, then blend with your fingertips until incorporated. Sprinkle crumbs in large clumps over top of cake.
Bake cake until a wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean and sides begin to pull away from pan, about 25 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 5 minutes.

Cinnamon Palmiers 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, frozen
5 to 6 tablespoons ice water
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons cinnamon

Stir together flour and salt in a chilled large metal bowl. Coarsely grate frozen butter into flour, gently tossing to coat butter.
Drizzle 5 tablespoons ice water evenly over flour mixture and gently stir with a fork until incorporated. Test mixture by gently squeezing a small handful: When dough has the proper texture, it will hold together without crumbling apart. If necessary, add another tablespoon water, stirring until just incorporated, and test again. (Do not overwork dough or add too much water, or pastry will be tough; dough will be lumpy and streaky.)
Form dough into a 5-inch square, then chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, at least 30 minutes.
Roll out dough on a floured surface with a floured rolling pin into a 15- by 8-inch rectangle (with a short side nearest you). Brush off excess flour and fold dough into thirds like a letter. Rewrap dough and chill until firm, at least 30 minutes.
Arrange dough with a short side nearest you on a floured surface and repeat rolling out, folding, and chilling 2 more times. Brush off any excess flour, then halve dough crosswise with a sharp knife and chill, wrapped separately in plastic wrap, at least 1 hour.
Stir together sugar and cinnamon, then generously sprinkle a clean work surface with some of cinnamon sugar and place 1 piece of chilled dough on top. Quickly roll out into a 16- by 12-inch rectangle (1/8 to 1/16 inch thick; if dough becomes too soft, chill on a baking sheet until firm). Trim edges with a sharp knife. Sprinkle top of dough evenly with some cinnamon sugar to cover completely, brushing off any excess. Fold 2 opposite long sides of pastry so they meet in center. Fold in same sides of pastry in same manner, then fold one half over the other (like a book) and press gently with a rolling pin to flatten slightly, forming a long rectangular log. Sprinkle with additional cinnamon sugar if dough is sticky.
Chill on a baking sheet, uncovered, until firm, at least 30 minutes and up to 2 hours. Meanwhile, repeat with remaining piece of dough and cinnamon sugar.
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F with rack in middle. Line a large baking sheet with parchment paper.
Cut 1 log of dough crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick slices with a sharp knife and arrange slices, cut sides down, 1 1/2 inches apart on baking sheet. Bake until puffed and golden around edges, 7 to 9 minutes. Remove from oven and turn palmiers over with a spatula. (If palmiers begin to unroll, gently press to reshape when cooled slightly.) Continue baking until golden all over and sugar is caramelized, 3 to 5 minutes more. Transfer as done (palmiers may not bake evenly) to a rack and cool. Make more cookies on cooled baking sheet lined with fresh parchment.

Orange Cardamom Cookies 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 tablespoons grated orange zest
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom
1 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1/2 pound) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
1 large egg yolk
2 tablespoons heavy cream
Equipment: a 3-inch round or 2 3/4-inch square cookie cutter
Garnish: citrus icing (optional); food coloring (optional); decorative sugar (optional)

Whisk together flour, zest, cardamom, and salt.
Beat butter and sugar with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy, then beat in yolk and cream. At low speed, mix in flour mixture in 3 batches just until a dough forms. Quarter dough and form each piece into a 6-inch disk, then chill, wrapped separately in plastic wrap, until firm, 2 to 3 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle.
Roll out 1 piece of dough between sheets of parchment paper into an 11-inch round (1/8 inch thick). Slide dough in parchment onto a tray and chill until firm, about 15 minutes.
Cut out as many cookies as possible with cookie cutter (chill dough again if necessary), reserving and chilling scraps. Transfer cookies to a parchment-lined large baking sheet, arranging them 1 inch apart.
Bake until edges are golden-brown, 9 to 12 minutes. Cool on baking sheet 5 minutes, then slide cookies, still on parchment, onto a rack to cool completely.
Make more cookies with remaining dough and scraps (reroll only once) on cooled freshly lined baking sheets.
If icing cookies and coloring icing, transfer small batches to small bowls, 1 for each color, and tint with food coloring. Spoon each color of icing into separate sealable bags, pressing out excess air, and snip an 1/8-inch opening in 1 bottom corner of each bag. Pipe icing onto a plate to test consistency. If too thick, thin a small batch with a few drops of orange juice.
Decoratively pipe icing onto cookies, then sprinkle with decorative sugar (if using) and let dry completely, about 1 hour (depending on humidity).

Pistachio Dark-Chocolate Crisps 
1/2 stick unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
6 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon curry powder
1 large egg white
2 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup shelled roasted pistachios, chopped
Equipment: a small offset spatula

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Line a large baking sheet with parchment.
Blend butter, brown sugar, flour, vanilla, salt, curry powder, and egg white in a food processor until smooth.
Glue parchment down with a dab of batter in each corner, then spread remaining batter evenly into a 14- by 10-inch rectangle (1/8-inch-thick) on parchment with spatula. Scatter chocolate and nuts evenly over batter, then bake until firm and golden-brown, 18 to 20 minutes. Transfer, still on parchment, to a rack to cool completely. Remove from paper, breaking into pieces.

Carrot Cupcakes with Orange Icing 
4 medium carrots
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon grated nutmeg
3/4 cup vegetable oil
3 large eggs
1 cup packed light brown sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups confectioners sugar
1/2 teaspoon grated orange zest
2 to 3 tablespoons fresh orange juice
Equipment: a muffin pan with 12 (1/2-cup) muffin cups; 12 paper liners
12 paper liners
Garnish: candied carrot curls

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Line muffin cups with paper liners.
Coarsely grate enough carrots to measure 2 cups using large teardrop holes of a box grater.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg in a bowl.
Whisk together oil, eggs, brown sugar, grated carrots, and vanilla in a large bowl, then stir in flour mixture until just combined.
Divide batter among muffin cups and bake until golden and a wooden pick inserted into center of a cupcake comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes.
Cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes. Remove cupcakes from pan and cool completely on rack, about 1 hour more.
Sift confectioners sugar into a bowl. Whisk in zest and 2 tablespoons juice until smooth. If icing is too thick, add more juice, 1 teaspoon at a time. Dip top of each cupcake into icing, letting excess drip off. Put a carrot curl on top of each and let icing set, about 15 minutes.

Carrot Cake 
Room-temperature butter and flour for preparing pan
N/A flour
2/3 cup flour
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup vegetable oil, hazelnut oil, or walnut oil
2 eggs
1 cup chopped walnuts
1/2 cup chopped, drained pineapple
1 cup finely grated carrot (from about 1 large carrot)
One 8-ounce package cream cheese
6 tablespoons butter
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 3/4 cups confectioners' sugar

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 9-by-5-inch or 4 1/2-by-8 1/2-inch loaf pan. Coat the pan with flour, tapping out the excess. In a bowl, whisk together the flour, granulated sugar, baking soda, baking powder, spices, and salt, and then sift them into a second bowl to make sure the spices are well combined. In a small bowl, whisk together the oil and eggs until blended, and then stir the egg mixture into the flour with a rubber spatula. Fold in the walnuts, pineapple, and grated carrot. Transfer the batter to the prepared pan and smooth the top with an offset spatula.
Bake for 50 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Let cool until easy to handle, and turn out onto a cake rack.
While the cake is cooling, make the frosting. In a bowl, combine the cream cheese, butter, vanilla, and confectioners' sugar. Using a stand mixer fitted with the paddle attachment or a handheld mixer, beat on medium speed until well combined and fluffy, about 10 minutes or until smooth. Spread the frosting on the top of the loaf.

Trios 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1/2 pound) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
About 2 tablespoons seedless raspberry jam
About 2 tablespoons apricot preserves
About 2 tablespoons strawberry preserves
Equipment: a 1/2-inch-thick wooden spoon handle or dowel

Whisk together flour and salt. Beat butter and sugar with an electric mixer until very pale and fluffy, about 4 minutes, then beat in egg and vanilla. At low speed, mix in flour mixture in 3 batches just until a dough forms. Divide dough in half and form each piece into a 6-inch disk, then chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Roll 3 separate level teaspoons of dough each into a ball, then flatten each ball slightly (to 1 inch wide and less than 1/2 inch thick). Arrange them in a triangle on baking sheet with edges touching in center, then make a deep indentation in center of each round with wooden spoon handle. Make more cookies, arranging them 1 inch apart on baking sheets.
Fill indentations in each cookie with about 1/88 teaspoon jam (each cookie should have 3 different fillings), avoiding any large pieces of fruit.
Bake until cookies are baked through and golden-brown on edges, 15 to 20 minutes. Cool on baking sheets 5 minutes, then transfer to racks to cool completely.
Bake more batches on cooled baking sheets lined with fresh parchment.

Holiday Fruit-Filled Pound Cake 
3/4 cup Cognac or other brandy
2/3 cup golden raisins
2/3 cup currants
2/3 cup dried apricots, finely chopped
2/3 cup dried cranberries
3/4 cup whole blanched almonds plus 1/3 cup for top of cake (6 ouncecs total)
1 cup sugar, divided
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
4 large eggs
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 tablespoon grated orange zest
3 tablespoons sweet orange marmalade or apricot preserves
1 tablespoon orange-flavored liqueur
Equipment: a 9-inch springform pan

Heat brandy in a 1-quart saucepan over low heat until warm, then remove from heat and stir in dried fruit. Cover and let stand 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F with rack in middle. Invert bottom of springform pan and lock on side. Generously butter pan and dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Finely grind 3/4 cup almonds with 1/4 cup sugar in a food processor, then whisk together with flour, baking powder, and salt in a bowl.
Beat butter and remaining 3/4 cup sugar with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition (batter will appear curdled), then add vanilla, zest, and fruit with brandy and beat until thoroughly combined, about 2 minutes.
At low speed, mix in flour mixture until incorporated. Spoon batter into pan, smoothing it, and top with remaining 1/3 cup almonds.
Bake until a long wooden pick inserted into center of cake comes out clean, 1 1/2 to 1 3/4 hours. Run a thin metal spatula around side of cake, then cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, melt marmalade with liqueur in a small heavy saucepan over medium heat, stirring, then strain glaze through a sieve into a small bowl, discarding solids.
Loosen side of cake with thin metal spatula again, then remove side of pan and loosen bottom of cake. Transfer cake from pan to rack and brush glaze over top of cake.
Cool cake completely, about 3 hours.

Salted Praline Langues de Chat 
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup sliced almonds (preferably with skin), toasted
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon table salt
1/3 cup sliced almonds (preferably with skin)
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
5 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon pure almond extract
Flaky sea salt, such as Maldon, for sprinkling
Equipment: a pastry bag fitted with a 3/8-inch plain tip

Put a large sheet of foil on a heatproof work surface.
Heat sugar in a 12-inch heavy skillet over medium heat, stirring with a fork to heat sugar evenly, until it starts to melt, then stop stirring and cook, swirling skillet occasionally so sugar melts evenly, until it is golden. Add toasted almonds, stirring until coated well, then carefully pour onto foil (mixture will spread) and cool completely, about 15 minutes. Peel praline off foil and chop with a large heavy knife. Transfer to a food processor and pulse until finely chopped.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F with racks in upper and lower thirds. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Whisk together flour and table salt. Pulse almonds with sugar in a food processor until finely ground.
Beat butter and sugar mixture with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy, then beat in egg whites and extracts. At low speed, mix in flour mixture in 3 batches until just combined well.
Transfer batter to pastry bag, then dab some batter under corners of parchment to secure to baking sheets. Pipe 6-inch-long strips (about 1/3 inch wide) 1 1/2 inches apart in 2 slanted rows (so they will fit) on each baking sheet.
Bake until slightly puffed but still pale, 7 to 9 minutes, then sprinkle generously with praline and lightly with sea salt. Continue baking until cookies are baked through and golden-brown on edges, 7 to 11 minutes more. (Turn baking sheets if cookies are browning unevenly.) Slide parchment with cookies onto racks to cool completely (cookies will crisp as they cool).
Form and bake more cookies on cooled baking sheets lined with fresh parchment.

A Fruitcake to Love 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/4 cups chopped pitted Medjool dates
3/4 cup chopped candied orange peel
1/3 cup chopped dried Mission figs
10 oil-cured olives
2 tablespoons Nocello (walnut liqueur) or Frangelico (hazelnut liqueur)
2 tablespoons water
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 cup plain whole-milk yogurt
2 tablespoons olive oil
3/4 cup (11/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
3 large eggs
2 cups coarsely chopped walnuts
3/4 cup shelled unsalted natural pistachios

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter two 8 1/2x4 1/2x2 1/2-inch metal loaf pans. Spray with nonstick spray; dust with flour. Mix dates and next 5 ingredients in medium bowl. Let stand 15 minutes. Sift flour, baking powder, coarse kosher salt, nutmeg, cloves, and cinnamon into another medium bowl.
Whisk yogurt and oil in small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with yogurt mixture in 2 additions, beginning and ending with flour mixture. Stir in walnuts, pistachios, and dried-fruit mixture. Divide batter between prepared pans. Smooth tops.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into centers comes out clean and cakes begin to pull away from sides of pans, about 50 minutes. Cool in pans 30 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks. Cool completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made up to 1 month ahead. Wrap in foil, then enclose in resealable plastic bags. Store at room temperature up to 3 days or freeze up to 1 month. Thaw frozen cakes in refrigerator. Bring to room temperature before serving.

Flourless Chocolate-Hazelnut Cake 
12 ounces 60% cacao bittersweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into chunks
6 large eggs
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup Frangelico or other hazelnut liqueur, divided
1 cup finely ground hazelnuts (ground in processor; about 5 ounces)
1 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1 cup chilled heavy whipping cream
Chopped toasted hazelnuts

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Line bottom of pan with parchment paper round. Wrap outside of pan tightly with 3 layers of heavy-duty foil. Combine chocolate and butter in medium metal bowl; set bowl over saucepan of simmering water. Whisk until mixture is melted and smooth. Remove bowl from over water.
Whisk eggs, golden brown sugar, and 1/4 cup Frangelico in large bowl to blend. Add chocolate mixture and whisk until smooth. Stir in ground hazelnuts and 1 teaspoon coarse kosher salt. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Place springform pan in large roasting pan. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to come halfway up sides of springform pan. Place in oven and tent springform pan loosely with foil. Bake until cake is set in center and top is dry to touch, about 1 1/2 hours (top of cake will remain shiny). Remove cake from roasting pan; remove foil from top and outside of pan. Cool cake in pan on rack. Chill cake until cold, about 3 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead. Cover and keep chilled.
Using electric mixer, beat whipping cream and remaining 1/4 cup Frangelico in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Run knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Cut cake into wedges. Transfer to plates. Top with whipped cream; sprinkle with chopped toasted hazelnuts.

Poppy-Seed Cake 
1 1/4 cups whole poppy seeds (6 ounces)
1/2 stick unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup granulated sugar
5 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon grated nutmeg
1/4 cup chopped golden raisins
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon zest
1/4 teaspoon salt
Confectioners sugar for dusting
Equipment: an 8-inch springform pan; an electric coffee/spice grinder

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F with rack in middle. Butter and flour springform pan.
Grind poppy seeds in small batches in grinder until they have a fluffy, sandy texture.
Beat together butter and granulated sugar with an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Add yolks 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in ground poppy seeds, cinnamon, nutmeg, raisins, and zest until just combined.
Using cleaned beaters, beat egg whites with salt in another bowl until they just hold stiff peaks. Stir one third of whites into batter to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Pour batter into springform pan and bake until a wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean, 1 to 1 1/4 hours.
Cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes. Remove side of pan and cool cake completely.
Just before serving, dust cake with confectioners sugar.

Spiced Apple Cake with Eggnog Sauce 
1/2 cup raisins or dried cranberries
3 tablespoons Applejack, dark or golden rum, or warm water
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground allspice
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (packed) light brown sugar, sifted
1 cup granulated sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, softened
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 Golden Delicious apples, peeled, cored, and cut into 1/2-inch dice (about 4 cups)
1 cup (4 ounces) pecans, coarsely chopped
1/3 cup crystallized ginger, finely chopped
Garnish: confectioner's sugar for dusting
Accompaniment: 3 cups eggnog, chilled
10-inch bundt pan (3 1/4 inches deep; 3-qt capacity)

In small bowl, combine raisins and rum. Let stand until raisins plump, about 1 hour. Drain, discarding rum, and set aside.
Position rack in middle of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter bundt pan, then dust with flour, knocking out excess.
In large mixing bowl or bowl of electric mixer, sift together flour, baking powder, baking soda, allspice, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves, and salt. Add brown and granulated sugars, butter, eggs, and vanilla. Using electric mixer, beat on high speed, scraping down sides of bowl with rubber spatula as needed, until batter is pale and smooth, about 3 minutes for handheld mixer or 2 minutes for standing mixer. Stir in apples, pecans, ginger, and raisins. Spoon into prepared pan and smooth top.
Bake until wooden pick or skewer inserted in center of cake comes out clean and cake just shrinks from sides of pan, about 1 hour. Cool cake in pan on rack 10 minutes, then invert and unmold onto rack and cool completely. (Cake can be made up to 3 days ahead and stored at room temperature, wrapped tightly in plastic wrap.)
Just before serving, sift confectioner's sugar over cake. Serve accompanied by eggnog.

Glazed Apple Lattice Coffee Cake 
2 tablespoons warm water (105 degrees F to 115 degrees F)
1 package active dry yeast
1/2 cup whole milk
6 tablespoons sugar
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, diced, room temperature
1 teaspoon salt
2 large egg yolks
1 teaspoon finely grated orange peel
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
2 to 2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
6 tablespoons (packed) golden brown sugar
1 1/4 pounds Golden Delicious apples (about 3 medium), peeled, cored, quartered, cut crosswise into 1/4-inch slices
1 teaspoon finely grated orange peel
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/3 cup finely crumbled vanilla wafer cookies or soft ladyfingers
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
2 tablespoons (or more) orange juice

Place 2 tablespoons warm water in small cup. Mix in yeast. Let stand until yeast dissolves, about 6 minutes.
Stir milk, sugar, butter, and salt in medium saucepan over medium-low heat just until sugar dissolves and butter melts (mixture should be just warm). Scrape milk mixture into large bowl; cool to lukewarm if necessary. Whisk in yeast mixture, egg yolks, orange peel, and spices. Add 2 cups flour; mix with rubber spatula until dough comes together. Turn dough out onto floured work surface. Knead until smooth and silky, sprinkling with more flour by tablespoonfuls as needed, about 6 minutes. Place in clean large bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and kitchen towel. Place in warm draft-free area; let rise until light and almost doubled in volume, about 2 1/2 hours.
Melt butter in heavy medium skillet over medium-high heat. Add brown sugar. Cook until thick grainy sauce forms, about 1 minute. Mix in apples. Cook until apples are tender and sauce is reduced to glaze, tossing often, about 7 minutes. Mix in all grated peel and spices. Cool filling at least 30 minutes and up to 3 hours.
Place large sheet of foil on work surface; spray with nonstick spray. Turn dough out onto foil. Roll out to 14x12-inch rectangle. Sprinkle cookie crumbs in 4-inch-wide strip down center, leaving 1/2-inch border at top and bottom. Arrange apples with any juices atop crumbs. Starting 1/2 inch from each long side of apples, cut straight to edge of dough at 1-inch intervals, making about 13 strips on each side. Fold dough strips alternately and on slight angle over filling, forming lattice. Seal open ends of dough.
Slide foil with dough onto large rimmed baking sheet; trim foil overhang. Cover cake loosely with plastic and towel. Place cake in warm draft-free area; let dough rise until light and puffy, about 1 3/4 hours.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Bake cake uncovered until golden brown, 30 to 35 minutes. Gently run spatula under cake to loosen from foil. Cool 30 minutes.
Mix powdered sugar and 2 tablespoons orange juice in small bowl to blend, adding more juice by 1/2 teaspoonfuls if too thick. Drizzle glaze over cake. Cut crosswise into slices. Serve slightly warm or at room temperature.

White Chocolate Tiramisu Trifle With Spiced Pears 
1 750-ml bottle dry white wine
2 cups pear juice or pear nectar
1 1/4 cups sugar
12 whole green cardamom pods, crushed in resealable plastic bag with mallet
4 1-inch-diameter rounds peeled fresh ginger (each about 1/8 inch thick)
2 cinnamon sticks, broken in half
5 large firm but ripe Anjou pears (3 to 31/4 pounds), peeled
7 ounces high-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), finely chopped
1/3 cup poire Williams (clear pear brandy)
1/4 cup water
1/2 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
1 8- to 8.8-ounce container mascarpone cheese*
1 cup chilled heavy whipping cream
3 3-ounce packages soft ladyfingers,** separated
2 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
1/4 cup minced crystallized ginger
White chocolate curls
1 tablespoon powdered sugar

Combine first 6 ingredients in large saucepan. Stir over medium-high heat until sugar dissolves. Add pears and bring to boil. Reduce heat to medium, cover, and simmer until pears are just tender when pierced with knife, about 35 minutes. Transfer liquid with pears to large bowl and refrigerate until cold, about 3 hours.
Using slotted spoon, transfer pears to plate. Boil poaching liquid in heavy large saucepan over medium-high heat until slightly thickened and reduced to generous 1 1/2 cups, about 15 minutes. Strain into 2-cup measuring cup; discard spices in strainer. Cool. Cover and chill pears and pear syrup until cold.
Combine white chocolate, pear brandy, and 1/4 cup water in top of double boiler set over simmering water. Stir until smooth (mixture will be very liquidy). Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean; discard bean. Transfer white chocolate mixture to large bowl; gradually add mascarpone, whisking until mixture is smooth. Cool mascarpone mixture until barely lukewarm.
Using electric mixer, beat 1 cup cream in medium bowl until peaks form. Fold whipped cream into mascarpone mixture in 4 additions. Cover and chill white chocolate mousse until set, about 3 hours. DO AHEAD: Pears and mousse can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled.
Cut pears lengthwise in half and remove cores and stems; cut halves lengthwise into 1/4-inch-thick slices.
Arrange ladyfingers, rounded sides down, in single layer in bottom of 12-cup trifle dish (about 8 inches in diameter and 5 inches deep), covering bottom completely (using about 15 ladyfingers). Drizzle 5 tablespoons pear syrup evenly over ladyfingers. Using small offset spatula, spread 1/3 of white chocolate mousse over ladyfingers, making layer slightly thicker around outer edges of dish to allow mousse to be more visible (center of mousse layer will be thin). Starting at outer edges of dish, place pear slices in single layer with curved edges against sides of dish atop mousse, covering completely. Repeat layering of ladyfingers, syrup, mousse, and pears 2 more times. Cover with fourth layer of ladyfingers (some ladyfingers and pear slices may be left over). Drizzle ladyfingers evenly with 5 tablespoons syrup. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate trifle and remaining pear syrup separately.
Using electric mixer, beat 2 cups whipping cream in large bowl until soft peaks form. Add 1/4 cup pear syrup and beat until stiff peaks form. Working in batches, transfer cream to large pastry bag fitted with large star tip. Pipe rosettes all over top of trifle, mounding slightly in center. Sprinkle with crystallized ginger. Garnish with chocolate curls. DO AHEAD: Can be made 6 hours ahead. Keep refrigerated.
Sift powdered sugar over trifle just before serving.
* Mascarpone is an Italian cream cheese; sold at many supermarkets and at Italian markets.
** Available in the bakery or bread section of some supermarkets and at specialty foods stores.

Vanilla Roll-Out Cookies 
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 large egg
1 1/4 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups all purpose flour
Sprinkles or other sugar decorations (optional)
Royal Icing (optional)

Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl at medium speed until smooth and creamy, about 2 minutes. Add sugar and salt and beat until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add egg; beat until well blended, about 1 minute. Reduce speed to low and beat in vanilla. Add flour and beat on low speed just to blend. Gather dough into ball; divide in half. Form each half into ball and flatten into disk. Wrap disks separately in plastic and chill until firm, at least 4 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.
Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Working with 1 disk at a time, roll out dough between 2 sheets of waxed paper to 1/8-inch thickness for smaller (2-inch) cookies and 1/4-inch thickness for larger (3- to 4-inch) cookies. Using decorative cookie cutters, cut out cookies and transfer to prepared sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. If cookies become too soft to transfer to baking sheets, place in freezer on waxed paper for 5 minutes before continuing. Gather scraps, roll out dough, and cut more cookies, repeating until all dough is used. If not icing cookies, decorate with sprinkles or other sugar toppings, if desired.
Bake 1 sheet at a time until cookies are firm on top and golden around edges, about 10 minutes for smaller cookies and up to 14 minutes for larger cookies. Cool completely on rack. Decorate with Royal Icing, then sprinkles or other sugar toppings, if desired. Let stand until icing sets. DO AHEAD: Can be made 4 days ahead. Store between sheets of waxed paper in airtight containers.

Ginger Honey Cookies 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 cup finely chopped crystallized ginger
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 large egg
1/4 cup mild honey

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with racks in upper and lower thirds.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, ginger, and salt in a bowl.
Beat together butter and brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy. Beat in egg and honey until combined. Reduce speed to low, then mix in flour mixture.
Drop 14 heaping tablespoons of dough 2 inches apart onto 2 ungreased baking sheets.
Bake, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until golden, 10 to 14 minutes total (cookies will spread flat). Cool completely on sheets on racks.

Spiced Pumpkin Layer Cake 
3 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 tablespoon ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 3/4 teaspoons ground allspice
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 cup canola oil
4 large eggs
1 15-ounce can pure pumpkin
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon grated orange peel
3/4 cup raisins
3/4 cup sweetened flaked coconut plus additional for garnish
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 tablespoon dark rum
1 teaspoon vanilla extract or vanilla paste
4 1/2 cups powdered sugar (measured, then sifted)

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper; dust pans with flour. Sift 3 cups flour and next 7 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat both sugars and oil in large bowl until combined (mixture will look grainy). Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until well blended after each addition. Add pumpkin, vanilla, and orange peel; beat until well blended. Add flour mixture; beat just until incorporated. Stir in raisins and 3/4 cup coconut. Divide batter between prepared pans. Smooth tops.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool cakes completely in pans on rack. Run knife around cakes to loosen. Invert cakes onto racks; remove parchment paper. Turn cakes over, rounded side up. Using serrated knife, trim rounded tops of cakes to level.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until smooth. Beat in dark rum and vanilla. Add powdered sugar in 3 additions, beating just until frosting is smooth after each addition (do not overbeat or frosting may become too soft to spread). Place 1 pumpkin cake layer, flat side down, on platter. Spread half of cream cheese frosting over top of cake to edges. Top with second cake layer, trimmed side down. Spread remaining frosting over top (not sides) of cake. Sprinkle additional coconut over. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.
Cut cake into wedges and serve.
It's better to underbeat the frosting than overbeat it. That bit of restraint makes for a slightly firmer frosting that's easier to spread.

Orange Cheesecake with Candied Kumquats 
2 cups water
2 cups sugar
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
9 ounces kumquats (about 25 medium), thinly sliced crosswise, seeds removed
2 cups vanilla wafer cookie crumbs (made from about 9 ounces cookies, finely ground in processor)
1/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
6 to 7 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1 cup fresh orange juice
1 cup sugar, divided
2 tablespoons finely grated orange peel
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sour cream
3 tablespoons all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
5 large eggs, room temperature

Combine water and sugar in medium saucepan. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean; add bean. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Add kumquats; reduce heat. Simmer until kumquat slices are translucent, about 25 minutes. Remove from heat; cool kumquats in syrup. Strain kumquats, reserving syrup. Combine kumquats and 1/4 cup syrup in small bowl. Return remaining syrup to same saucepan; boil until reduced to 1 1/4 cups, about 8 minutes. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover separately and chill.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Combine cookie crumbs and brown sugar in medium bowl; add 6 tablespoons melted butter and stir until crumbs feel moist when pressed together with fingertips, adding remaining 1 tablespoon melted butter if mixture is dry. Press crumb mixture evenly onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Bake crust until set and edges are golden brown, about 20 minutes. Cool crust in pan on rack. Maintain oven temperature.
Wrap 4 layers of heavy-duty foil tightly around outside of pan with crust to make pan waterproof.
Combine orange juice, 1/4 cup sugar, and orange peel in small saucepan. Bring to boil, stirring until sugar dissolves. Reduce heat. Simmer until mixture is reduced to 3/4 cup, about 10 minutes. Chill until cool.
Meanwhile, using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and remaining 3/4 cup sugar in large bowl until smooth. Mix in sour cream, flour, and salt. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Mix in cooled orange juice mixture. Pour filling into crust; place springform pan in large roasting pan. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to come halfway up sides of springform pan.
Bake cake until just set in center, about 1 hour 35 minutes. Remove cake from roasting pan; remove foil. Place cake directly in refrigerator and chill overnight. Arrange kumquat slices atop cake, covering completely. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Tent cake with foil and refrigerate.
Remove pan sides; place cake on platter. Cut cake into wedges; drizzle some kumquat syrup over and serve.
The KUMQUAT SYRUP is perfect with the cake—but don't stop there. It's also yummy drizzled over vanilla or coffee ice cream or in a cup of tea, a glass of club soda, or even a vodka Martini.

Halloween Spiderweb Cookies 
2 batches decorating icingepi:recipelink</epi:recipelink>
1 batch sugar cookiesepi:recipeLink:, cut out using 3 1/3-inch round or octagonal cookie cutter, baked according to directions in recipe, and cooled completely
Black food coloring, preferably liquid
3 pastry bags fitted with couplers, 2 #3-size (medium, round) decorating tips, 1 #1-size (small, round) decorating tip, small offset spatula, toothpicks

Make thin icing: In large bowl, stir together 1 batch icing and 2 tablespoons water. Fit 1 pastry bag with #3-size tip and fill with thin icing.
Color thicker icing: Divide second batch icing between 2 medium bowls. To icing in 1 bowl, gradually mix in black food coloring until icing is black. Fit second pastry bag with second #3-size tip and fill with black icing.
Fit third pastry bag with #1-size tip and fill with remaining (thicker) white icing.
Pipe border: Using pastry bag with #1 tip and thicker white icing, pipe around outer edge of 1 cookie. Repeat with remaining cookies and let set 2 minutes.
 inchFlood inch to fill center: Using pastry bag with #3 tip and thinner white icing, squirt pool of icing into center of 1 cookie, then spread to edge with small offset spatula. Repeat with second cookie, giving first time to set.
Pipe circles: Returning to first cookie, using pastry bag with black icing, pipe concentric circles over white icing, beginning in center and ending almost at edge. Repeat with second cookie, giving first time to set.
Form spiderweb pattern: Returning to first cookie, position tip of toothpick in center and drag through icing out to edge. Wipe tip and repeat 7 more times to make 8 evenly spaced, radiating lines like spokes of wheel.
Next, position tip at edge, halfway between 2 lines, and drag inward to center to create another line. Wipe tip and repeat 7 more times to make 8 more lines between first 8.
Repeat process with second iced cookie. Repeat with remaining cookies, working in batches of 2 to allow icing to partially set, but not harden, between steps. Let cookies dry, uncovered, at room temperature 10 hours or overnight. (Once dry, cookies will keep, layered between sheets of wax paper or parchment, in airtight container at room temperature 1 week.)

Ginger-Squash Cake with White Chocolate Frosting 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 cup all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1 cup finely shredded peeled butternut squash
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/3 cup unsalted butter, melted
1 large egg
2 tablespoons finely grated peeled fresh ginger
1 1/4 teaspoons vanilla extract, divided
3/4 cup chopped toasted hazelnuts (about 4 ounces), divided
3 tablespoons whipping cream
3 ounces high-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 9x9x2-inch metal baking pan with nonstick spray. Whisk flour and next 5 ingredients in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat squash, brown sugar, butter, egg, ginger, and 1 teaspoon vanilla in large bowl to blend. Fold in flour mixture and 1/2 cup hazelnuts. Transfer to pan, spreading to edges (layer will be thin). Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool.
Bring cream just to boil in small saucepan over medium heat. Remove from heat. Add white chocolate and remaining 1/4 teaspoon vanilla; whisk until smooth. Let stand at room temperature until thick enough to spread, about 20 minutes. Spread over cake (layer will be thin). Sprinkle remaining 1/4 cup nuts over. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Let stand at room temperature. Cut into 16 squares and serve.

Sage-Scented Shortbread 
2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup powdered sugar
2 tablespoons thinly sliced fresh sage leaves or 2 teaspoons dried sage
1 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch-thick pieces, room temperature

Blend first 4 ingredients in processor. Add butter; using on/off turns, process until dough comes together. Divide in half. Shape each dough piece into log about 1 1/2 inches in diameter. Chill until firm enough to slice, about 30 minutes.
Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment. Cut each dough log into 1/3- to 1/2-inch-thick rounds; place on sheets. Bake 10 minutes. Reverse sheets so bottom sheet is on top rack of oven and top sheet is on bottom rack. Bake until cookies are golden, about 15 minutes longer. Cool on racks.

Brown Sugar and Chocolate Chip Pound Cake with Maple-Espresso Glaze 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 12-ounce package semisweet chocolate chips
3 cups all purpose flour, divided
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
2 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon maple extract
4 large eggs
1 cup buttermilk
1 cup powdered sugar
2 tablespoons pure maple syrup
2 tablespoons (or more) whipping cream
1 1/2 teaspoons instant espresso powder

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 12-cup Bundt pan. Spray pan generously with nonstick spray. Dust pan lightly with flour. Mix chocolate chips and 2 tablespoons flour in medium bowl. Sift remaining flour with baking soda, baking powder, and salt into another medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and brown sugar in large bowl until fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in vanilla extract and maple extract. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with buttermilk in 2 additions, beginning and ending with flour mixture. Fold in chocolate chip mixture. Transfer batter to prepared pan, spreading evenly.
Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean and cake begins to pull away from sides of pan, about 1 hour. Cool cake in pan on rack 30 minutes. Invert cake onto rack and cool completely.
Mixing the chocolate chips with a little flour before adding them to the batter helps the chips stay evenly suspended in the batter and evenly distributed throughout the baked cake (otherwise, they may sink to the bottom).
Combine powdered sugar, maple syrup, 2 tablespoons cream, and espresso powder in medium bowl. Whisk until smooth, adding more cream by 1/2 teaspoonfuls if glaze is too thick to drizzle. Spoon glaze decoratively over top of cake; let stand at room temperature until glaze is firm, about 1 hour. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and let stand at room temperature.

Chocolate Panna Cotta Layer Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
4 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 cup hot coffee
1/2 cup hot water
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup vegetable oil
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 large eggs
1/2 cup sour cream
1/2 cup water
5 teaspoons unflavored gelatin
7 1/2 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
5 ounces high-quality milk chocolate, such as Lindt or Perugina, chopped
2 1/2 cups heavy whipping cream
2 1/2 cups whole milk
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 1/4 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/4 vanilla beans, split lengthwise
2 16x3-inch strips waxed paper
5 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray two 10-inch-diameter springform pans with 2 1/2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Place chocolate and cocoa in medium bowl. Pour hot coffee and hot water over; whisk until smooth. Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in another medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat oil and both sugars in large bowl 1 minute (mixture will be crumbly). Add eggs 1 at a time, beating to blend after each addition. Beat in sour cream. Mix in half of dry ingredients. Beat in chocolate mixture. Add remaining dry ingredients; beat on low speed just to blend (batter will be thin). Divide batter between pans (layers will be shallow).
Bake cakes until tester inserted into centers comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool in pans on rack.
Place 1/2 cup water in small bowl. Sprinkle gelatin over; let soften 10 minutes. Place both chocolates in large metal bowl. Combine cream, milk, sugar, and vanilla extract in large saucepan. Scrape in seeds from vanilla beans; add beans. Bring to boil, stirring until sugar dissolves; remove from heat. Add gelatin mixture; whisk to dissolve. Pour cream mixture over chocolates in bowl; whisk until completely melted. Place bowl over a larger bowl of ice water. Stir often until mixture thickens like pudding, draining off water and adding more ice to larger bowl as needed, about 30 minutes. Remove from over water.
Pour 1/2 of panna cotta over cake in 1 pan (mixture may drip down sides of cake). Freeze 45 minutes. Keep remaining panna cotta at room temperature.
Remove pan sides from second cake. Using large metal spatula, carefully slide cake off of pan bottom and place atop panna cotta in cake pan. Pour remaining panna cotta over, filling pan completely. Chill overnight. DO AHEAD: Can be covered and frozen for 2 weeks. Defrost overnight in refrigerator before continuing.
Line large baking sheet with foil; set aside. Place another large sheet of foil on work surface; place waxed paper strips atop foil, spacing apart. Stir chocolate in medium bowl set over pan of simmering water until smooth. Pour half of melted chocolate down center of each waxed paper strip. Using small offset spatula, spread chocolate to cover strips evenly, allowing some of chocolate to extend beyond edges of paper strips, making sure strips are completely covered. Using fingertips, lift strips and place on foil-lined sheet. Chill until chocolate just begins to set but is still completely flexible, about 2 minutes.
Cut around pan sides to release cake. Remove pan sides from cake. Using fingertips, lift 1 chocolate band from foil. Wrap band around cake, waxed-paper side out, lining up 1 long edge with bottom of cake (band will be higher than cake). Repeat with second band, arranging so ends just meet, pressing band onto uncovered side of cake. If bands overlap, trim any excess paper and chocolate. Using fingertips, press top edge of band in toward cake, forming slight ruffle. Chill until chocolate sets, 5 minutes. Gently peel off waxed paper. Chill cake. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Chill.

Orange-Almond Shortcakes with Cranberry Parfait 
1 12-ounce package fresh or frozen cranberries
1 12-ounce container frozen concentrated cranberry juice cocktail, thawed
8 large egg yolks
3/4 cup sugar
2/3 cup orange juice
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
1 tablespoon vodka
1 large egg, separated
3/4 cup sugar, divided
1/2 cup sliced almonds
1/2 7-ounce log almond paste,* diced
2 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 teaspoon finely grated orange peel
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
6 tablespoons non-hydrogenated vegetable shortening, frozen, diced
2/3 cup orange juice
1 8-ounce container frozen nondairy cream topping, thawed

Bring cranberries and cranberry concentrate to simmer in medium saucepan. Cover; cook over medium-low heat until berries are very tender, about 12 minutes. Cool; puree in blender until smooth. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 week ahead. Cover and chill.
Combine egg yolks, sugar, orange juice, corn syrup, and vodka in large metal bowl. Place over saucepan of boiling water. Using electric mixer, beat until thick and billowy and instant-read thermometer registers 140 degrees F for 3 minutes, about 7 minutes total. Remove bowl from over water. Beat mixture 2 minutes. Add 1 cup cranberry puree; beat until mixture is cool, about 5 minutes. Cover; freeze until firm, about 4 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 3 days ahead; keep frozen. Chill remaining puree.
Set rack in top third of oven and preheat to 400 degrees F. Line baking sheet with parchment. Whisk egg white and 1/4 cup sugar in small bowl. Add almonds;toss to coat.
Grind 1/2 cup sugar and almond paste in processor to fine meal. Add flour and next 4 ingredients; blend 5 seconds. Add shortening; blend until coarse meal forms. Transfer to large bowl. Whisk egg yolk and orange juice in small bowl; add to dry ingredients, tossing until clumps form. Gather dough into 10-inch-long log. Cut crosswise into 10 pieces. Shape each into 2 1/4-inch round, about 1 inch thick. Place on sheet. Spoon almonds over biscuits (some egg white will be left over).
Bake biscuits until golden and tester inserted into centers comes out clean, 25 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool.
Swirl 1 cup remaining cranberry puree into cream topping (in about 5 turns; do not overmix) for ribboned look. Halve biscuits horizontally. Let cranberry parfait soften slightly at room temperature 10 minutes before assembling shortcakes. Mound parfait onto biscuit bottoms; cover with tops. Mound cream-cranberry mixture alongside.
*Almond paste is available in the baking aisle of supermarkets and specialty foods stores.

Chocolate Roll-Out Cookies 
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon (optional)
3 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup (2 sticks) butter, room temperature
1 1/3 cups sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Sprinkles or other sugar decorations (optional)
Royal Icing (optional)

Sift first 5 ingredients and cinnamon, if desired, into medium bowl. Stir chocolate in metal bowl set over saucepan of simmering water until melted and smooth. Set aside. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl at medium speed until smooth and creamy, about 2 minutes. Add sugar and beat until mixture is pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add egg; beat until well blended, about 1 minute. Reduce speed to low and beat in vanilla and chocolate. Add flour mixture and beat on low speed just to blend. Gather dough into ball; divide in half. Form each half into ball and flatten into disk. Wrap disks separately in plastic and chill until firm, at least 4 hours. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled. Let stand at room temperature 30 minutes before rolling out.
Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper.
Working with 1 disk at a time, roll out dough between 2 sheets of waxed paper to 1/8-inch thickness for smaller (2-inch) cookies and 1/4-inch thickness for larger (3- to 4-inch) cookies. Using waxed paper prevents you from adding too much flour, which will make the cookies tough.
Using decorative cookie cutters, cut out cookies. Cold dough is much easier to work with. If it gets warm as you're cutting out the cookies, place the dough—waxed paper and all—in the freezer for about 5 minutes.
Use an offset spatula to peel away the excess dough and transfer the cookies to parchment-lined baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Gather scraps, roll out dough, and cut more cookies, repeating until all dough is used. If not icing cookies, decorate with sprinkles or other sugar toppings, if desired.
Bake 1 sheet at a time until cookies are firm on top and slightly darker around edges, about 9 minutes for smaller cookies and up to 12 minutes for larger cookies. Line baking sheets with fresh parchment as needed. Cool completely on rack. Decorate cookies with royal icing if desired. DO AHEAD: Cookies can be made 4 days ahead. Store between sheets of waxed paper in airtight containers.

Peppermint Ice Cream Candyland Cake 
1 1/2 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
6 tablespoons bittersweet or semisweet chocolate chips
3/4 cup water
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 large egg, room temperature
3 1/2 quarts (about) peppermint stick ice cream, slightly softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup water
1 1/2 tablespoons light corn syrup
1 to 2 cups assorted candies (such as sliced gummy candies, spice drops, Swedish mints, butter mints, rock candy pieces, and candy cane pieces)
1/2 cup water
8 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 15x10x1-inch baking sheet; line with parchment. Butter parchment. Whisk first 4 ingredients in large bowl. Melt butter in medium saucepan. Remove from heat. Add chocolate chips; stir until melted. Whisk in 3/4 cup water, cocoa, and vanilla until blended. Whisk in egg. Add to dry ingredients; whisk to blend. Pour batter onto prepared baking sheet.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out with some moist crumbs attached, about 22 minutes. Cool cake on baking sheet on rack 15 minutes. Run knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto sheet of foil; cool. Cut cake crosswise into 3 equal strips. Freeze cake strips 1 hour.
Place 1 cake strip on platter. Working quickly, spoon 3 1/2 cups peppermint ice cream in dollops over cake; spread evenly to edges. Top with second cake strip; spoon 3 1/2 cups ice cream in dollops over cake; spread evenly to edges. Top with third cake strip; freeze 1 hour. Spread enough remaining ice cream over top and sides of cake to cover generously (about 6 cups). Freeze until firm, about 3 hours.
Place 20-inch-long sheet of foil on work surface. Mark off 16x12-inch rectangle. Stir sugar, 1/2 cup water, and corn syrup in heavy small saucepan over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves, brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush. Increase heat and boil without stirring until candy thermometer registers 300 degrees F, tilting saucepan slightly to submerge bulb, about 15 minutes.
Being very careful (syrup is extremely hot), pour boiling syrup in wide zigzag lines across foil. Working quickly and using offset metal spatula, spread syrup evenly to 16x12-inch rectangle. Immediately sprinkle generously with candies, pressing larger pieces into syrup to adhere (do not touch hot syrup). If syrup hardens before all candies have been applied, slide foil with brittle onto large rimless baking sheet and place baking sheet directly over burner set on high heat to soften syrup, about 10 seconds, rotating sheet, then remove from heat and immediately apply remaining candies. Cool completely.
Starting at 1 end of brittle, break off irregular pieces, peeling foil as you go. Press brittle upright, candy side out, onto top and sides of cake and freeze. DO AHEAD: Cake can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and keep frozen.
Bring water to simmer in small saucepan. Remove from heat. Add chocolate; whisk until smooth. DO AHEAD: Sauce can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and chill. Rewarm sauce before continuing.
Slice cake and serve with sauce.

Sunken Chocolate-Orange Cupcakes 
1 cup blanched almonds
8 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
4 large eggs, separated
1 cup sugar, divided
2 teaspoons finely grated orange peel
Whipped cream or vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place almonds in processor. Using on/off turns, blend until nuts are coarsely ground.
Line 12-cup muffin pan with paper liners. Microwave chocolate and butter in small bowl on high 30 seconds; stir. Microwave until almost melted, about 30 seconds longer. Stir to combine. Cool chocolate mixture until barely lukewarm but still liquid, about 5 minutes. Whisk egg yolks and 3/4 cup sugar in large bowl until blended. Mix in orange peel, ground almonds, and chocolate mixture.
Using electric mixer, beat egg whites and remaining 1/4 cup sugar in another large bowl until mixture is thick and glossy and peaks form. Fold egg-white mixture into chocolate mixture in 3 additions. Divide batter among prepared muffin cups (about 1/3 cup batter in each). Bake until edges are firm and tops are cracked all over, about 16 minutes for very soft cake or about 22 minutes for firmer cake. Serve warm with whipped cream or ice cream. DO AHEAD: Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and chill. Rewarm in microwave in 10-second intervals before serving.

Poire Belle Helene Ice Cream Cake 
1 cup water
3/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons pear brandy
5 ounces fine-quality unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 (10 3/4-ounce) pound cake (preferably all-butter), thawed if frozen
2 pints Häagen-Dazs Caramelized Pear & Toasted Pecan ice cream, slightly softened

Bring water and sugar to a boil in a small heavy saucepan, stirring until sugar has dissolved. Remove from heat and stir in brandy. Reserve 1/4 cup syrup. Add chocolate to remaining syrup and stir over low heat until smooth. Cool sauce to room temperature.
Line bottom and sides of an 8 1/2- by 4 1/2-inch loaf pan with parchment, leaving a 3-inch overhang on both sides.
Cut off top and bottom crusts of cake, then cut cake in half horizontally. Spread about 1 cup ice cream in bottom of lined pan, then put 1 cake layer on top and brush cake with half of reserved syrup. Cover cake and space around it with 1 cup ice cream. Put remaining cake layer on top and brush with remaining syrup. Spread remaining ice cream over cake and into any spaces. Cover with overhang and freeze at least 3 hours.
Warm sauce over very low heat, stirring. Run a knife around edge of cake and invert onto a platter. Slice cake; serve with sauce.

Walnut-Orange Cake 
Nonstick olive oil spray
1 1/2 cups chopped walnuts
1 cup all purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
4 large eggs
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup fresh orange juice
1 tablespoon finely grated orange peel
1/2 cup olive oil
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 9-inch-diameter springform pan with nonstick olive oil spray. Place parchment paper round in bottom of pan and spray paper.
Grind walnuts in processor until finely ground but not powdery. Combine ground walnuts, flour, and baking powder in medium bowl; set aside.
Using electric mixer, beat eggs in large bowl until frothy, about 2 minutes. Gradually add sugar, beating until light, thick, and pale yellow, about 4 minutes. Gradually add walnut-flour mixture; then add orange juice, orange peel, and olive oil, beating just until blended. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Place pan on rimmed baking sheet, and bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool cake completely in pan on rack.
Release pan sides. Carefully invert cake onto platter and remove parchment paper. Sprinkle powdered sugar atop cake and serve.

Fluffy White Cake 
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, softened, plus additional for greasing pans
4 3/4 cups cake flour, sifted, plus additional for dusting pans
2 1/4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups whole milk
1 tablespoon plus 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 1/2 cups sugar
9 large egg whites

Arrange oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter cake pans and line bottom of each with round of parchment. Butter paper, then dust pans with flour, knocking out excess.
In large bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt. In small bowl, combine milk and vanilla.
In bowl of electric mixer fitted with paddle attachment, beat together butter and sugar on moderate speed until light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Reduce speed to low. Add 1/2 of flour mixture and beat until just combined. Add milk mixture and beat until just combined. Add remaining flour mixture and beat until just combined, then raise speed to moderately high and beat 10 seconds. Transfer to large bowl.
In clean bowl of electric mixer fitted with the whisk attachment, beat egg whites until they hold stiff peaks.
Fold 1/3 of egg whites into batter to lighten. Gently fold in remaining 2/3 of egg whites until just incorporated. Divide batter between prepared pans and smooth tops.
Bake cakes until tops are springy to touch and testers come out clean, about 30 minutes for 6-inch cake, 45 minutes for 9-inch cake, and 60 minutes for 12-inch cake. Cool cakes in pans on racks 30 minutes. Turn out cakes onto racks, peel off parchment, and cool cakes completely.
(Cakes may be stored at room temperature, tightly wrapped, 2 days; refrigerated up to 5 days; or frozen, double-wrapped, up to 2 weeks. Do not unwrap before thawing.)

White Elephant Cake with Buttercream Frosting 
3 1/2 cups flour
5 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
16 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
2 cups sugar
4 eggs
1/3 cup canned coconut milk
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups sugar
6 egg whites
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
A pinch of salt
1 1/4 pounds unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract

1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Mix together the flour, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl; set aside. Using an electric mixer, cream the butter and sugar until the mixture is light yellow. Add the eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. Add the coconut milk and the flour mixture alternately, ending with the flour mixture, and continuing to beat well after each addition. Stir in the vanilla.
2. Divide the batter evenly among 3 lightly buttered and floured 8-inch square pans. Bake for 30 to 35 minutes, or until a cake tester comes out clean. Cool in the pan, then invert onto cooling racks.
3. To create a 4-tiered cake, cut a 2-inch, 4-inch, and 6-inch square out of 2 of the cakes. Using sturdy cardboard, cut precise squares of the same dimensions. Place the cut cakes on the corresponding cardboard squares (they will serve as bases).
4. Insert 4 heavy-duty plastic straws, cut to 6-inch lengths, into the center of the remaining 8-inch cake, forming a square (they will act as the support for the 6-inch cake). Place the 6-inch cake on top of the 8-inch cake. Repeat this process with four more straws on the 6-inch cake, then place the 4-inch cake on top. Repeat the procedure for the 2-inch cake.
1. Cream the butter in a bowl until light and fluffy; set aside.
2. Combine 2/3 cup water and the sugar in a heavy saucepan. Heat until the liquid reaches the soft-ball stage, 240 degrees F on a candy thermometer. Watch carefully; do not let the sugar syrup overheat.
3. In another bowl, beat the egg whites with the cream of tartar and salt until very stiff peaks form. Continue beating on high speed as you slowly pour in 1/4 cup of the sugar syrup. Gradually add the rest of the syrup using the same method.
4. Continue beating as you add the butter, several tablespoons at a time. (Make sure the mixture has no heat left in it or the butter will melt). The frosting should become thick and creamy. If it doesn't thicken, cool it over a bowl of ice, then try beating again. Stir in the vanilla. Frost the cake and adorn it with elephant cookies ($8 to $12 each, elenis.com).

Chocolate Grand Marnier Cake 
10 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
6 large eggs, separated
2 tablespoons Grand Marnier or other orange liqueur
1 tablespoon finely grated orange peel
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
7 ounces bittersweet chocolate, chopped
7 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into 1-inch cubes, room temperature
2/3 cup whipping cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 10-inch-diameter springform pan; line bottom with parchment paper round. Stir chocolate in metal bowl set over saucepan of simmering water until melted and smooth. Cool slightly. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl 2 minutes. Beat in egg yolks, Grand Marnier, orange peel, and vanilla. Stir in lukewarm chocolate. Add flour and salt; stir to blend. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in another large bowl until peaks form. Fold whites into chocolate mixture in 3 additions. Transfer batter to prepared springform pan.
Bake cake until top is dry and cracked and tester inserted into center comes out with a few moist crumbs attached, about 45 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack (top will fall slightly). DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cool completely; cover and let stand at room temperature.
Place chocolate and butter in medium metal bowl. Bring cream to boil in small saucepan. Pour hot cream over chocolate mixture; stir until mixture is melted and smooth.
Run thin knife around inside of cake pan; remove pan sides. Invert cake onto 10-inch removable tart pan bottom or cardboard round. Place on rack set in rimmed baking sheet. Remove cake pan bottom and parchment. Pour icing over cake and spread to cover top and sides (any icing that drips onto baking sheet can be reused). Chill until glaze sets, about 30 minutes. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and chill. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.
Cut into wedges and serve.

Ice-Cream-Cone Cake 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
3 sticks (3/4 pound) unsalted butter, softened
1 3/4 cups sugar
4 large eggs at room temperature 30 minutes
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups whole milk
7 flat-bottomed wafer cones
1 1/2 cups whole milk
9 large egg yolks
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 1/2 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (no more than 60% cacao if marked), chopped
6 sticks (1 1/2 pound) unsalted butter, softened
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
2 cups coarsely crushed 2-inch chocolate wafers (28 small cookies)
Equipment: 2 (8- by 2-inch) round cake pans; a small offset spatula; 2 large pastry bags each fitted with 1/3-inch star tip
1 small offset spatula
2 large pastry bags each fitted with 1/3-inch star tip

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with racks in upper and lower thirds. Butter pans. Line bottoms with parchment, then butter and lightly flour pans.
Sift together flour, baking powder, and salt into a bowl.
Beat butter with sugar using an electric mixer (paddle attachment for a stand mixer) at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes in a stand mixer or 10 with a handheld. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then vanilla, and beat until thoroughly incorporated, about 5 minutes. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture in 4 batches alternately with milk, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing until batter is just smooth.
Stand cones, open ends up, in a 12-cup muffin pan and fill cones two-thirds full with batter. Divide remaining batter between cake pans.
Bake cones in upper third of oven and cakes in lower third until a wooden pick inserted in center of cake comes out clean, 15 to 22 minutes for cones, 25 to 35 minutes for cakes. Cool cakes 5 minutes in pans on a large rack and transfer cones to another rack to cool completely. Invert cakes onto rack and cool completely.
Bring milk just to a boil in a medium saucepan. Whisk together yolks, sugar, and salt in a bowl until combined well, then add milk in a slow stream, whisking constantly. Transfer to saucepan and cook over medium-low heat, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, until custard thickens and registers 175 degrees F on an instant-read thermometer, 5 to 10 minutes (do not let boil). Strain through a fine-mesh sieve into a metal bowl. Refrigerate, covered, until cold, at least 1 hour.
Melt chocolate, then cool to warm.
Beat butter with cleaned beaters (whisk attachment if using stand mixer) at high speed until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes in a stand mixer or 4 with a handheld. Reduce speed to medium and gradually pour in cold custard. Add vanilla and increase speed to high, then beat until buttercream is smooth, about 2 minutes in a stand mixer or 4 with a handheld.
Transfer 1 1/4 cups buttercream to a bowl and stir in warm melted chocolate to make chocolate buttercream. Transfer about 2 cups vanilla buttercream to another bowl and fold in crushed wafers to make cookies-and-cream filling.
Halve cakes horizontally with a large serrated knife. Put 1 cake layer, cut side up, on a cake stand or plate and, using offset spatula, spread top with 1 cup cookies-and-cream buttercream. Top with another cake layer, cut side down, and spread with 1 cup cookies-and-cream buttercream. Top with another cake layer, cut side up, and spread with remaining cookies-and-cream buttercream. Top with remaining cake layer, cut side down. Spread side and top of cake with about 2 1/2 cups vanilla buttercream (total).
Spoon chocolate buttercream and remaining vanilla buttercream into separate pastry bags.
Halve each cone lengthwise with serrated knife. Attach cones (flat sides) to side of cake with tops of cones touching. (You will have an extra cone in case one gets damaged.)
Holding pastry bag filled with vanilla buttercream vertically over cake, pipe about 2 tablespoons buttercream on top of every other cone (touching top of cake) to resemble soft-serve ice cream. Pipe chocolate buttercream on top of remaining cones in same manner.

Chocolate Torte 
Vegetable oil cooking spray
1/3 cup cocoa powder, plus 1 teaspoon for dusting
1 cup prunes, pitted and chopped
1/2 cup hot coffee
1/3 cup whole-wheat flour
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup light-brown sugar
1/4 cup applesauce
1 egg white
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
1/2 cup nonfat sour cream
1/4 cup confectioners' sugar

Heat oven to 350 degrees F Coat a 9 inch square cake pan with cooking spray. Dust with 1 teaspoon cocoa. Set aside. Combine prunes and coffee in a bowl. Set aside to cool. Combine remaining 1/3 cup cocoa, flours, baking powder, baking soda and salt in a large resealable plastic bag; shake. Add sugar, applesauce, egg white and 1 teaspoon of the vanilla to coffee-prune mixture. Empty bag into bowl; mix. Pour into prepared pan. Bake until a toothpick inserted in center of cake comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes. Cool completely before removing and slicing. Mix 1 tablespoon water, remaining 1 teaspoon vanilla and gelatin in a small pan. Set aside until gelatin becomes clear, 10 to 15 minutes. Heat over low heat until gelatin melts. Mix gelatin, sour cream and confectioners' sugar in a bowl. Refrigerate until topping is firm, 10 to 15 minutes. Beat until smooth. Add a dollop to each slice.

Lemon Cupcakes 
1 box of your favorite cake mix
3 sticks unsalted butter, at room temperature
25 ounces lemon curd
1 pound confectioners' sugar, sifted
1 to 2 tablespoons milk
A selection of colored sugars

1. Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line a 12-hole muffin tin with 12 paper cupcake cases. Prepare the cake batter according to the package directions.
2. Fill each cupcake case with batter up to just below the rim of the paper. Cover and refrigerate the remaining cake batter. Bake the cupcakes until a toothpick inserted into the center of a cupcake comes out clean, about 25 to 35 minutes. Remove and let cool in the tin for 10 minutes, then lift the cakes out of the tray and place on a cake rack to cool completely.
3. Repeat steps 1 and 2 with the remaining cake batter.
4. Meanwhile, using an electric mixer, beat the butter with 4 tablespoons of the lemon curd until smooth. Gradually add the sugar and continue beating until the mixture becomes a thick, creamy, spreadable frosting. Add more lemon curd to taste, if desired. If the frosting becomes too thick, gradually add the milk, beating between each addition, until the desired consistency is achieved.
5. Slice the top from each cupcake, cutting just above the rim of the paper case. Scoop out about 1 teaspoon of cake crumbs from the center of each cupcake and replace them with 11/2teaspoons of lemon curd. Place the top back on each cupcake, sticking it back together with the lemon curd. Spread the top of each cupcake with some frosting and dust with the colored sugars. Allow the frosting to set for at least 20 minutes before serving.

Oatmeal Cookies with Chocolate Chunks and Candied Ginger 
3 cups old-fashioned rolled oats
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup whole-wheat flour
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups (packed) brown sugar
1 large egg
1/4 cup honey
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
6 ounces semisweet chocolate (60 to 65 percent cocoa), coarsely chopped (about 1 1/4 cups)
1 cup crystallized ginger, finely chopped

Arrange racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
In food processor, combine oats, all-purpose flour, whole-wheat flour, salt, and baking soda. Pulse until oats are coarsely chopped, about 6 (1-second) pulses. Set aside.
Using electric mixer at high speed, beat butter and brown sugar until fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. Add egg, honey, and vanilla and beat until smooth, about 1 minute. Add oat mixture and mix at low speed just until incorporated. Stir in chocolate and ginger.
Drop rounded tablespoons of dough about 2 inches apart onto baking sheets. Bake, 2 pans at a time, switching positions of pans halfway through baking, until golden and slightly crisp on edges, about 14 to 16 minutes. Cool on sheets 3 minutes, then transfer to racks to cool completely. Continue making cookies with remaining dough and cooled sheets.
To keep them fresh, pack the cookies in covered containers with waxed paper between each layer. If it's very hot out, you may want to refrigerate them until you leave to ensure that they won't melt before dessert time.

Coconut Cheesecake with Mango Sauce 
11 whole graham crackers (to yield about 1 1/3 cups crumbs)
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1/3 cup sweetened flaked coconut
1 teaspoon pure coconut extract
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 cup cream of coconut (such as Coco López brand)
1 envelope unflavored gelatin
1/2 cup heavy cream, chilled
16 ounces cream cheese, softened and cut into 1-inch chunks
1 teaspoon pure coconut extract
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
One 14-ounce bag frozen mango puree, thawed
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
1 tablespoon dark rum

1. To make the crust, preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Place the graham crackers in the work bowl of a food processor and process until finely ground. Combine the crumbs, butter, coconut, coconut extract, and salt in a medium-size mixing bowl and stir until moistened.
2. Press the mixture evenly across the bottom and about 1 inch up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan, packing it tightly with your fingertips so it is even and compacted. Bake until crisp, 6 to 8 minutes. Let cool completely. (The crust may be wrapped in plastic wrap and frozen for up to 1 month.)
3. To make the filling, place 1/2 cup of the cream of coconut in a small heatproof bowl, sprinkle the gelatin on top, and let soften for 5 minutes. Put 1 inch of water in a small saucepan and bring to a bare simmer. Place the bowl over the simmering water and heat, whisking constantly, just until the gelatin melts, 30 seconds to 1 minute.
4. In a large bowl, using an electric mixer, beat the heavy cream until soft peaks form. Beat in the cream cheese and the remaining 1/2 cup cream of coconut until the mixture is almost smooth (a few small lumps are okay), 1 minute more. Stir in the coconut extract and vanilla extract. With the mixer running, pour in the liquefied gelatin. Continue to beat until the mixture is light and smooth, 2 to 3 minutes.
5. Scrape the filling into the prepared crust, smoothing the top with a rubber spatula. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate until firm, at least 6 hours and up to 2 days.
6. To make the sauce, push the mango puree through a fine-mesh strainer to remove any strings or tough fibers. Stir in the confectioners' sugar and rum. (You may refrigerate the sauce in an airtight container for up to 3 days.)
7. Release the sides of the pan from the cheesecake. Drizzle Mango Sauce on dessert plates and then place a slice of cake over the sauce on each plate. Serve immediately.

Toasted Anise-Seed Cake Slices 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 3/4 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 jumbo eggs
3/4 cup sugar
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 1/2 teaspoons anise seeds, finely crushed
a stand mixer fitted with whisk attachment

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter and flour an 8- by 4- by 3-inch loaf pan.
Sift together flour, baking powder, and salt into a bowl.
Beat together eggs and sugar in bowl of mixer at high speed until tripled in volume and thick enough to form a ribbon that takes 2 seconds to dissolve when beater is lifted, 12 to 18 minutes.
Sift flour mixture over egg mixture in 3 batches, folding in each batch. Gently stir in cooled butter and anise seeds. Immediately pour into loaf pan and smooth top. Bake until top is golden brown and a wooden pick inserted in center of loaf comes out clean, 35 to 45 minutes. Cool loaf 5 minutes, then invert onto a cutting board and cool 30 minutes more.
Meanwhile, increase oven temperature to 400 degrees F.
Trim ends of loaf and cut loaf crosswise into 1/2-inch-thick slices. Bake on a baking sheet until undersides are golden brown, about 7 minutes. Turn toasts over and bake until undersides are golden brown, about 5 minutes more.

Britta's Peanut Butter Cookies 
4 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
3 sticks (3/4 pound) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/3 cups creamy peanut butter
2/3 cup granulated sugar
2 1/4 cups packed brown sugar
1/3 cup vegetable oil
3 large eggs plus 2 large yolks
2 tablespoons pure vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with racks in upper and lower thirds.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a bowl.
Beat together butter, peanut butter, sugars, and oil with an electric mixer at high speed just until pale and creamy, about 2 minutes in a stand mixer or longer with a handheld. Add whole eggs, yolks, and vanilla and beat until just incorporated. Reduce speed to low, then add flour mixture in 3 batches, mixing until well incorporated.
Scoop scant 1/4cups of dough about 2 inches apart onto 2 ungreased large baking sheets. Flatten mounds with floured tines of a fork, making a crosshatch pattern, into 2 1/2-inch cookies (about 1/2 inch thick).
Bake, switching position of sheets halfway thourough baking, until slightly puffed and golden around edges, about 30 minutes total. Transfer cookies to racks to cool.
Switch an oven rack to middle position and make more cookies with remaining dough on a cooled baking sheet.

Rhubarb Bread and Butter Pudding 
1 pound red rhubarb
Sugar
4 tablespoons butter, preferably unsalted
12 slices good-quality white bread, crusts removed
2 cups cream
1 cup milk
4 extra large free-range eggs, beaten lightly
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon extra sugar, for sprinkling on top of pudding
Softly whipped cream
A deep 8-inch square or round baking dish
A water bath or roasting pan

Cut the rhubarb into 1-inch pieces. Put into a dish and sprinkle with sugar. Let macerate for an hour.
Butter the bread. Arrange four slices, buttered-side down, in one layer in the buttered baking dish. Scatter half the rhubarb over the bread, and cover with another layer of bread, buttered-side down. Scatter the remaining rhubarb on top and cover with the remaining bread, buttered-side down.
Whisk together the cream, milk, eggs, vanilla, and sugar in a bowl. Pour the mixture through a fine strainer over the bread. Sprinkle the extra spoonful of sugar over the top. Let the mixture stand, covered loosely, for at least 1 hour or refrigerate overnight.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Bake in a water bath — the water should be boiling and should come halfway up the sides of the baking dish — in the middle of the preheated oven, for about 1 hour or until the top is crisp and golden. Server the pudding warm, with some softly whipped cream.

Cornmeal Sugar Cookies 
2/3 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup yellow cornmeal
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup confectioners sugar
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 teaspoon grated lemon zest
Granulated sugar for sprinkling

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle.
Whisk together flour, cornmeal, cornstarch, and salt.
Blend butter, confectioners sugar, vanilla, and zest in a food processor until creamy, about 30 seconds. Scrape down side of bowl, then add all of flour mixture and pulse until dough just begins to come together.
Roll out dough on a well-floured surface with a well-floured rolling pin to 1/3 inch thick. Cut out as many rounds as possible with a 2-inch round cookie cutter or drinking glass and transfer to an ungreased large baking sheet. Reroll scraps and cut out more rounds. Sprinkle tops with granulated sugar.
Bake until undersides are pale golden, 12 to 14 minutes. Transfer to a rack to cool.

Guatemalan Sweet Cakes 
3/4 cup rice flour (not Asian)
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
7 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
2/3 cup sugar
3 large eggs
1/2 cup farmer cheese at room temperature
Equipment: a muffin pan with 12 (1/2-cup) cups; paper liners

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Line muffin cups.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt in a bowl.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in cheese. Mix in flour mixture at low speed until just combined.
Divide among nine muffin cups (a slightly rounded 1/4-cup batter each). Bake until pale golden and a wooden pick inserted in center of a cake comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on a rack 15 minutes, then turn out onto rack and cool to warm.

Kabocha Squash Cake with Brown Sugar Cream 
1 tablespoon water
1/2 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
2 cups heavy whipping cream
1/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 large egg whites
2 cups 3/4-inch cubes peeled seeded kabocha squash (from one 3-pound squash)
1 cup whole milk
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
6 tablespoons olive oil
1/4 cup lager (mild-flavored beer)
1 large egg
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt

Place 1 tablespoon water in cup. Sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand 10 minutes to soften.
Stir cream and sugar in medium saucepan over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Add egg whites and whisk until mixture thickens, about 12 minutes (do not boil). Add gelatin mixture; whisk until dissolved. Strain into large clean bowl. Chill until cold. Cover and chill overnight.
Combine squash and milk in heavy small saucepan. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean; add bean. Bring to simmer over medium heat. Partially cover, reduce heat to medium-low, and simmer until squash is very tender, about 20 minutes. Remove vanilla bean. Drain squash. Place in processor and blend until smooth. DO AHEAD: Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Spray six 3/4cup ramekins with nonstick spray. Place 1/2 cup squash puree in large bowl (reserve remaining puree for another use). Add sugar, oil, beer, and egg to puree and beat to blend. Sift flour, cinnamon, baking soda, and salt over; beat to blend. Divide batter among prepared ramekins.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 18 minutes. Cool cakes in ramekins. Turn out onto plates. Beat brown sugar cream to firm peaks; spoon alongside cakes.

Cherry Double-Chocolate Cookies 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
Scant 1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups packed light brown sugar
2 large eggs
3 1/2 oz fine-quality milk chocolate, cut into 1/2-inch chunks
1 cup pecans, toasted and coarsely chopped
1 cup dried sour cherries

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F with racks in upper and lower thirds.
Whisk together flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt in a small bowl.
Beat together butter and brown sugar with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, then add eggs 1 at a time, beating until combined well. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture, mixing until just combined. Add chocolate chunks, pecans, and cherries and mix until just incorporated.
Drop 2 level tablespoons of dough per cookie about 2 inches apart onto 2 ungreased large baking sheets. With dampened fingers, flatten cookies slightly.
Bake, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until puffed and set, 12 to 14 minutes. Transfer cookies to a rack to cool.

Coconut Rum Cake 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 large eggs plus 3 large yolks
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, melted and cooled
3/4 cup well-stirred sweetened cream of coconut such as Coco López
1 medium coconut
2 teaspoons confectioners sugar
3 tablespoons cream cheese, softened
3 tablespoons well-stirred sweetened cream of coconut
1 tablespoon dark rum
3/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 to 3 tablespoons heavy cream
1/2 cup confectioners sugar
Equipment: a 9-inch round cake pan (2 inches deep); an adjustable-blade slicer

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F with rack in middle. Lightly butter cake pan and line bottom with a round of parchment paper. Lightly butter parchment, then flour pan.
Whisk together flour (1 1/4 cups), baking powder, and salt.
Whisk together whole eggs and yolks, sugar, and vanilla in a large bowl. Gradually whisk in flour mixture until combined, then whisk in butter until just combined. Pour into cake pan and rap pan on counter to expel air bubbles.
Bake until golden brown and cake starts to pull away from side of pan, about 45 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes. (Leave oven on.) Invert cake onto rack (discard parchment) and cool 10 minutes more. Generously brush top and side of warm cake with cream of coconut, allowing it to soak in before brushing on more. Cool completely.
Pierce softest eye of coconut with a small screwdriver, then drain and discard liquid. Bake coconut in a shallow baking pan 15 minutes. (Leave oven on.) Break shell with a hammer, then pry flesh from shell with screwdriver.
Thinly shave enough coconut with slicer to measure 2 cups and toss with confectioners sugar, then spread in 1 layer on a baking sheet. Bake until just dry but not golden (some tips may color), 5 to 10 minutes. (Shave and bake remaining coconut with more confectioners sugar to serve on the side, or freeze for another use.) Cool coconut completely. (It will crisp as it cools.)
Beat together cream cheese, cream of coconut, rum, vanilla, and 2 tablespoons cream with an electric mixer until smooth, then beat in confectioners sugar. Icing should be smooth and slightly runny; stir in remaining tablespoon cream if necessary.
Smooth icing over top of cooled cake, allowing some to drip over side, then top with coconut slivers.

Fresh Pineapple Upside-Down Cake 
1 2/3 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 fresh pineapple, halved lengthwise, cored, and peeled
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
2/3 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 large eggs
2/3 cup well-shaken buttermilk

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Sift together flour, baking powder and soda, and salt into a bowl. Cut pineapple crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick wedges.
Butter a 9-inch round cake pan (2 inches deep) lightly on side and generously on bottom of pan using 1/2 stick butter. Sprinkle all of brown sugar evenly over bottom and arrange pineapple over it, starting in center of pan and overlapping slices slightly.
Beat together remaining stick butter, granulated sugar, and vanilla with an electric mixer at medium speed until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes, then add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture alternately with buttermilk in batches, beginning and ending with flour and mixing just until batter is smooth.
Spread batter evenly over pineapple and bake until a wooden pick inserted in center of cake comes out clean, 40 to 45 minutes. Cool 15 minutes in pan on a rack, then invert cake onto a plate and remove pan. Cool to room temperature.

Chocolate-Almond Cupcakes with Fluffy Coconut Frosting 
3/4 cup blanched almonds (or rounded 1/2 cup blanched slivered almonds)
1 1/2 cups sugar
6 cups sweetened shredded coconut (from two 14-ounce bags)
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 large eggs, room temperature
1 (13 1/2-ounce) can unsweetened coconut milk, stirred
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
Seven Minute Frosting
Jordan almonds (optional)
2 nonstick muffin pans, each with 6 large (1-cup) cups

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter muffin cups.
In food processor, process almonds and 1/2 cup sugar until finely ground. Add 2 loosely packed cups shredded coconut and pulse twice to chop slightly. Transfer mixture to medium bowl and whisk in flour, cocoa, baking powder, baking soda, and salt.
In metal bowl set over pan of barely simmering water, melt chocolate, stirring until smooth. Remove from heat and set aside.
Using electric mixer, beat butter and remaining 1 cup sugar at high speed until fluffy, about 5 minutes. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add melted chocolate and beat at moderate speed until incorporated. Add 1/2 of flour mixture and mix at low speed until nearly smooth. Add coconut milk and vanilla and mix at low speed until blended. Add remaining flour mixture and mix at low speed until smooth.
Spoon batter into prepared muffin cups, filling almost to top. Bake until tester inserted in center of 1 cake comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool in pans on racks.
Pour remaining shredded coconut into 9-inch-square baking dish. Run small knife around edges of pans and unmold cakes. Spread frosting on cakes and invert each into coconut to coat frosting liberally. Garnish with Jordan almonds, if desired.

Apple Spice Cake With Brown Sugar Glaze 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1 3/4 pounds Granny Smith apples, peeled, cored, coarsely grated
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup whipping cream
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon salt

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325F. Spray 12-cup Bundt pan with nonstick spray. Sift flour and next 6 ingredients into medium bowl. Drain grated apples in strainer. Using hands or kitchen towel, squeeze out excess liquid from apples. Measure 2 cups grated apples.
Using electric mixer, beat butter, both sugars, and lemon peel in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time. Mix in vanilla and lemon juice. Beat in flour mixture. Mix in grated apples. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool in pan on rack 20 minutes.
Stir all ingredients in small nonstick skillet over medium-high heat until sugar dissolves and mixture comes to boil. Reduce heat to medium; whisk until glaze is smooth, about 1 minute. Remove from heat. Invert cake onto rack set over baking sheet. Using small skewer, pierce holes all over top of warm cake. Pour glaze over top, allowing it to be absorbed before adding more. Cool cake 30 minutes. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Orange Flourless Chocolate Cake for the Reagan Family 
1 1/2 sticks (170 g) unsalted butter, plus extra for greasing
flour, for dusting
6 ounces (170 g) bittersweet chocolate
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons (220 g) sugar
zest of one large orange
4 eggs plus 2 egg yolks
1/2 cup (55 g) unsweetened cocoa powder
10x confectioners' sugar, for dusting
candied orange peel and vanilla ice cream, to serve

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F (190 degrees C). Butter and flour a 10-inch (25-cm) round cake pan. Line the bottom of the pan with parchment paper, then butter and flour the parchment paper. Gently melt the chocolate over a double boiler. Stir the butter into the chocolate to melt, and stir until smooth. Remove from the double boiler and whisk the sugar and orange zest into the chocolate mixture. Add the eggs and egg yolks and whisk well. Sift the cocoa powder over the chocolate mixture and whisk the batter until totally smooth. Pour the batter into the pan and bake for approximately 35 to 40 minutes, or until the top has formed a good crust. Cool the cake in the pan on a rack for 10 minutes. Invert the cake onto a serving platter. Dust with confectioners' sugar and serve with candied orange peel and vanilla ice cream.

Caramel Apple Upside-Down Cakes 
2 1/4 cups sugar, divided
1/4 cup water
2 tablespoons plus 1/2 cup (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 large Golden Delicious apples (about 2 pounds), peeled, cored, each cut into 8 wedges
1 3/4 cups cake flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup whole milk
Vanilla ice cream

Combine 1 1/2 cups sugar and 1/4 cup water in heavy small saucepan. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and boil without stirring until color is deep amber, occasionally swirling pan and brushing down sides with pastry brush dipped into water, about 8 minutes. Working quickly, divide hot caramel among six 1 1/4-cup custard cups. Using pot holders to protect hands, tilt and rotate custard cups to cover bottoms with caramel. Set aside.
Melt 2 tablespoons butter in large nonstick skillet over medium heat. Add apple wedges and sauté until just tender, about 12 minutes. Arrange apple wedges in bottoms of caramel-lined custard cups.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Sift cake flour, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat remaining 1/2 cup butter and remaining 3/4 cup sugar in another medium bowl until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time and beat until well blended after each addition. Mix in vanilla extract. Beat in flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with whole milk in 2 additions. Spoon batter over apples in custard cups, dividing batter equally (about 1/2 cup for each).
Bake cakes until light golden around edges and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Run small knife around cakes to loosen. Invert cakes onto plates. Serve warm with vanilla ice cream.

Chocolate-Orange Cookie Stacks 
1 cup chilled heavy whipping cream
2/3 cup frozen orange juice concentrate, partially thawed
40 chocolate wafer cookies (about one 9-ounce package)
Finely grated orange peel

Using electric mixer, beat cream and orange juice concentrate in medium bowl until stiff peaks form.
Place 8 cookies on rimmed baking sheet, spacing apart. Spoon about 1 level tablespoon whipped orange cream atop each cookie, then top each with second cookie and another tablespoon cream. Repeat 2 more times with cookies and cream, creating 8 stacks of 4 cookies with 4 layers of orange cream. Top each stack with fifth cookie. Transfer remaining orange cream to small bowl; cover and chill cream. Cover and chill stacks at least 6 hours or overnight (cookies will soften).
Carefully transfer 1 stack to each of 8 plates. Rewhisk reserved orange cream, if necessary, until stiff peaks form. Spoon dollop of orange cream atop each stack, sprinkle with grated orange peel, and serve.

Orange-Pumpkin Roulade 
Canola-oil cooking spray
Parchment paper
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
3/4 cup sugar
2/3 cup pumpkin puree
2 teaspoons grated orange zest
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup finely chopped pecans
2/3 cup confectioners' sugar, plus extra for dusting
1 teaspoon gelatin
1 cup lowfat ricotta cheese
6 ounces lowfat cream cheese
1 tablespoon finely minced candied orange peel

Heat oven to 375 degrees F. Coat a 12-inch x 15-inch x 1-inch jelly-roll pan with cooking spray. Line with parchment paper; coat with cooking spray. Whisk flour, cinnamon, baking powder, nutmeg, ginger and salt in a bowl. In another bowl, beat eggs with an electric mixer on high until fluffy. Gradually beat in sugar until combined. Reduce speed to low; add pumpkin, zest and vanilla until just combined. Gently but thoroughly fold in flour mixture. Pour batter into prepared pan. Spread into an even layer. Sprinkle pecans on top. Bake 10 to 12 minutes or until toothpick inserted in center comes out clean. Lightly dust a clean towel with confectioners' sugar. Remove cake from oven. Invert cake onto towel. Remove pan. Gently peel off top parchment. Tightly roll up cake in towel, starting on long side closest to you. Place seam side down on a rack. Place gelatin and 1 tablespoon cold water in a heatproof bowl; place bowl in pan of hot water to melt gelatin. In another bowl, beat ricotta, cream cheese and confectioners' sugar with an electric mixer on medium until smooth. Beat in gelatin and candied peel. Cover; refrigerate at least 1 hour. Gently unroll cake; set towel aside. Spread top with even layer of filling, leaving a 1-inch border on the far side. Gently roll up cake. Place seam side down on a platter. Refrigerate until ready to serve, covered loosely with plastic wrap. Before serving, trim cake by diagonally cutting thin slice off each end. Dust with confectioners' sugar.

Soft Ginger Cookies 
4 cups all purpose flour
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup robust (dark) molasses
1/2 cup pure vegetable shortening
1 large egg, beaten to blend
1/2 cup boiling water
Additional sugar

Combine first 8 ingredients in large bowl. Add molasses, shortening, and egg. Using electric mixer, beat until well blended. Beat in 1/2 cup boiling water. Chill dough 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Roll chilled dough by generous tablespoonfuls into balls. Roll in additional sugar to coat. Place dough balls 2 inches apart on ungreased baking sheets. Bake until cookies are puffed and cracked on top and tester inserted into center comes out with some moist crumbs attached, about 12 minutes (do not overbake). Transfer cookies to racks and cool.

Frozen Meringue Cake with Seasonal Berries 
4 large egg whites
1 cup sugar
2 cups heavy cream
1 tablespoon sifted confectioners' sugar
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract or seeds from 1 vanilla pod
1 pint seasonal berries such as strawberries, raspberries, or blueberries
Additional whipped cream for garnish

Preheat oven to 200 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with aluminum foil; butter and flour foil.
In large bowl using electric mixer, beat egg whites until soft peaks form. Gradually add sugar, beating until stiff and glossy. Drop 8 (approximately 1/3-cup) mounds of meringue about 1 inch apart onto baking sheets and use spoon to make indentations in centers of mounds.
Bake in upper and lower thirds of oven until crisp but still white, about 45 minutes. Turn oven off and cool meringues in oven 1 hour. Using metal spatula, transfer meringues to rack to cool completely. (Meringue shells can be made up to 5 days ahead and kept in airtight container at room temperature.)
Lightly oil 7-inch diameter soufflé dish or ramekin (6 cup capacity).
In large bowl using electric mixer, beat cream until soft peaks form. Fold in confectioners' sugar and vanilla. Chop meringue shells into 1-inch pieces and fold into cream. Transfer mixture to soufflé dish and cover with plastic wrap. Freeze until firm, approximately 8 hours. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Cover; keep frozen.)
To un-mold dessert, fill large bowl 1/3 full of hot water. Run small knife around inside edge of soufflé dish to loosen. Dip dish into bowl of hot water for 2 seconds, being careful not to splash water onto cream. Carefully invert onto serving plate. Arrange berries on top of and around frozen cream and garnish with additional whipped cream.

Green Tea Cheesecake with Raspberries and Raspberry-Mint Tisane 
1 cup (generous) ground shortbread cookies (about 6 ounces)
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature (do not use whipped or  inchlight inch products)
1/2 cup (packed) fromage blanc*
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
4 large eggs
2 teaspoons Japanese green tea powder** or 2 teaspoons finely ground green tea from about 4 tea bags
2 1/2-pint containers fresh red raspberries
2 1/2-pint containers fresh golden raspberries
1 bunch fresh mint
Boiling water

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Press cookie crumbs firmly onto bottom (not sides) of 8-inch-diameter springform pan. Wrap outside of pan tightly with 3 layers of heavy-duty foil. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, fromage blanc, and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until incorporated after each addition. Beat in green tea powder until smooth. Pour batter over prepared crust in pan. Place cakein roasting pan; add enough hot water to roasting pan to come halfway up sides of springform pan.
Bake cake until set but center moves very slightly when pan is gently shaken, about 1 hour. Remove cake from roasting pan; cool 1 hour at room temperature. Refrigerate uncovered overnight. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.)
Place 5 raspberries (mix of red and golden) and 3 mint leaves in each of 8 heatproof glasses. Fill glasses with boiling water; let steep 5 minutes.
Cut around pan sides to loosen cake; remove sides. Place cake on platter. Garnish cake with some raspberries. Cut cake into wedges. Serve each piece with a few raspberries and a glass of tisane.
*Fromage blanc is available at some supermarkets, cheese stores, and specialty foods stores.
**Green tea powder is available at Japanese markets.

Chai-Spiced Cheesecake with Ginger Crust 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/4 cup sugar
1 large egg yolk
1/4 cup minced crystallized ginger
4 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 (8-ounce) container mascarpone cheese (Italian cream cheese)
5 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
2 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
2 1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 1/3 cups sour cream
3 tablespoons sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract

Spray 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 3-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Sift flour, ginger, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in another medium bowl until blended. Beat in egg yolk, then flour mixture. Stir in crystallized ginger. Gather dough into ball; flatten into disk. Roll out on floured surface to 9-inch round. Transfer to prepared pan. Press onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of pan; pierce all over with fork. Freeze 30 minutes.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line crust with foil; fill with dried beans or pie weights. Bake until set, about 30 minutes. Remove foil and beans. Bake crust until golden brown and cooked through, about 20 minutes. Cool crust completely on rack.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth, about 3 minutes. Add mascarpone; beat until smooth. Beat in whole eggs, 1 at a time, then beat in yolks. Add next 6 ingredients; beat until blended. Transfer filling to cooled crust in pan; smooth top. Bake cake 1 hour. Reduce oven temperature to 200 degrees F. Continue baking until cake is set around edges but center moves slightly when pan is gently shaken (top of cake may crack), about 30 minutes longer. Remove cake from oven. Increase oven temperature to 350 degrees F.
Whisk all ingredients in small bowl; spread evenly over top of cake. Bake until set, about 10 minutes. Run small knife around cake sides. Chill uncovered overnight. DO AHEAD Can be made 2 days ahead. Chill until cold, then cover and keep chilled. Remove pan sides. Transfer cake to platter. Cut into wedges and serve.

Lemon Crisps 
1 1/2 cups sifted all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 small lemons
5 tablespoons butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar, plus additional for dusting
1 large egg, separated
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 sheets parchment paper

Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt in a bowl. Grate zest from 1 lemon directly over another mixing bowl. Squeeze 3 tablespoons lemon juice into a third bowl; set aside. Add butter to lemon zest and beat with an electric mixer on medium until combined. Add sugar a little at a time; beat 1 minute. Add yolk (cover egg white with plastic wrap and refrigerate until ready to use) and half the flour mixture; beat on low until just combined. Add lemon juice, vanilla and remaining flour mixture. Beat until just combined. Form dough into a log about 8 inches long and 2 inches in diameter. Cover tightly in plastic wrap. Refrigerate 3 hours. Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Cut dough into 40 thin rounds and place on baking sheets. Whisk egg white with 1/4 teaspoon water; brush on top of cookies. Dust each with a bit of sugar. Bake 8 to 10 minutes or until edges are golden. (If baking both sheets of cookies at the same time, alternate positions halfway through.) Let cool on baking sheet 5 minutes. Transfer to wire racks to cool completely.

Chai-Spiced Almond Cookies 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/3 cups powdered sugar, divided
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon almond extract
3/4 teaspoon ground allspice
3/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup all purpose flour
3/4 cup finely chopped toasted almonds

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Using electric mixer, beat butter, 1/3 cup sugar, both extracts, spices, and salt in medium bowl. Beat in flour, then stir in almonds.
Using hands, roll dough into tablespoon-size balls. Place on large baking sheet, spacing apart. Bake until pale golden, about 25 minutes. Cool on sheet 5 minutes. Place remaining sugar in large bowl. Working in batches, gently coat hot cookies in sugar. Cool cookies on rack. Roll again in sugar and serve.

Ginger and Pink Grapefruit Cheesecake 
20 whole graham crackers, coarsely broken
6 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
3 tablespoons finely chopped crystallized ginger
1 1/3 cups heavy whipping cream
1 (1-inch-long) piece fresh ginger, peeled, cut into very thin rounds
1 cup ginger preserves
1 tablespoon water
4 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 tablespoon ground ginger
2 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 large eggs
2 large pink or ruby grapefruits
Finely chopped crystallized ginger

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides.
Blend graham crackers and sugar in processor to coarse crumbs. Add 1/2 cup butter. Blend until crumbs hold together; press onto bottom and up sides of prepared pan. Bake crust until beginning to color, about 15 minutes; sprinkle with chopped ginger. Cool. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Stack 3 long sheets of 18-inch-wide foil on work surface. Place cake pan in center. Fold foil snugly up sides of pan.
Bring cream and fresh ginger to simmer. Remove from heat; cover. Steep 30 minutes. Strain cream. Stir preserves and 1 tablespoon water in small saucepan over medium heat until preserves melt; strain into small bowl. Discard solids; reserve ginger jelly.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until smooth. Beat in sugar, ground ginger, vanilla, and salt. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well. Add 2 tablespoons ginger jelly and beat until blended. Gradually beat in strained cream. Transfer to prepared crust. Place cake pan in large roasting pan. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to come halfway up sides of cake pan. Place cake in water bath in oven.
Bake cake until gently set, browned on top, and beginning to crack around edges, about 2 hours. Remove from water. Remove foil. Place hot cake, uncovered, in refrigerator and chill overnight. Do ahead Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep cake chilled. Store ginger jelly at room temperature.
Line large plate with several layers of paper towels. Cut all peel and pith off grapefruits. Working over bowl, cut between membranes to release segments; place on paper towels to drain. Cover with additional paper towels, pressing to absorb excess liquid. Do ahead Can be prepared 8 hours ahead. Chill, changing towels as needed.
Cut around crust. Remove pan sides. Spread 1/4 cup ginger jelly over filling; top with grapefruit, then brush with ginger jelly. Sprinkle with crystallized ginger. Do ahead Can be made 1 hour ahead. Chill.

Real Gingerbread 
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, well softened
2/3 cup molasses (not blackstrap)
2/3 cup packed dark brown sugar
2 large eggs
3 tablespoons finely grated (with a rasp) peeled fresh ginger
2/3 cup hot water

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 9-inch square baking pan.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, spices, and salt in a bowl.
Beat together butter, molasses, brown sugar, eggs, and ginger in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until combined. Reduce speed to low and mix in flour mixture until smooth, then add hot water and mix until combined (batter may appear curdled).
Pour batter into pan and bake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center of cake comes out clean, 35 to 40 minutes. Cool to warm in pan on a rack.

Chocolate Chip Cookie and Mint Ice Cream Sandwiches 
16 ready-to-bake chocolate chip cookie dough pieces
3/4 cup chopped toasted hazelnuts
1 pint vanilla ice cream, slightly softened
2 tablespoons chopped fresh mint
1/4 teaspoon peppermint extract
6 ounces (1 cup) semisweet or bittersweet chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Shape dough pieces into balls. Arrange on baking sheet and flatten to 1/2-inch thickness; press nuts onto each. Bake until golden, 12 to 18 minutes, depending on brand of cookie. Cool completely on sheet.
Meanwhile, mix ice cream, fresh mint, and extract in small bowl; place in freezer until ready to use.
Line baking sheet with foil. Place 1/4 cup ice cream on flat side of 1 cookie. Top with flat side of second cookie. Place on prepared sheet and freeze. Repeat to form 7 more sandwiches. Freeze until ice cream begins to firm, about 10 minutes.
Melt chocolate chips in microwave-safe bowl on low setting in 15-second intervals, stirring often. Dip sandwiches halfway into chocolate. Return to sheet. Freeze at least 30 minutes and up to 1 day.

Coffee-Walnut Cake with Coffee-Mascarpone Cream 
1 cup walnuts (about 4 ounces), toasted, chopped, divided
1 cup sugar, divided
1 tablespoon instant espresso powder
1 1/3 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup buttermilk
4 1/2 teaspoons instant espresso powder
1 tablespoon water
1 cup chilled heavy whipping cream
1/2 cup (4 ounces) mascarpone cheese*
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup (about 3 ounces) walnuts, toasted, chopped
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Pinch of salt
*Italian cream cheese; sold at many supermarkets and at Italian markets.

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Blend 1/2 cup walnuts, 1 tablespoon sugar, and espresso in processor until nuts are finely ground. Whisk flour, baking powder, cinnamon, baking soda, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth. Gradually add remaining sugar (1 cup minus 1 tablespoon), beating until fluffy. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, then egg yolk. Add ground walnut mixture and vanilla; beat to blend. Reduce mixer speed to low and beat in dry ingredients in 3 additions alternately with buttermilk in 2 additions. Fold in remaining 1/2 cup walnuts. Divide batter evenly between prepared pans.
Bake cake layers until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 26 minutes. Cool in pans 5 minutes, then turn out onto racks and cool completely.
Stir espresso and 1 tablespoon water in large bowl until coffee dissolves. Add cream, mascarpone, sugar, and vanilla. Beat until filling is thick and smooth (do not overbeat or filling may curdle).
Place 1 cake layer on platter, flat side up. Spread half of filling over cake. Place second layer, flat side down, on filling. Spread remaining filling over top. Mix walnuts, cinnamon, and salt. Sprinkle over top of cake. Cover with cake dome. Chill at least 1 hour and up to 1 day.

Dark and White Chocolate Chunk Cookies 
2 2/3 cups bittersweet or semisweet chocolate chips, divided
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
2 large eggs
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup self-rising flour
1/2 cup chopped crystallized ginger
3 1/2 ounces high-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), very coarsely chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Stir 2 cups chocolate chips with butter in heavy small saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth; cool 10 minutes. Beat eggs and sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in melted chocolate mixture and vanilla, then flour. Stir in ginger and remaining 2/3 cup chocolate chips; let stand 10 minutes.
Drop cookie dough by rounded tablespoonfuls onto prepared baking sheets, spacing cookies 1 1/2 to 2 inches apart. Press white chocolate pieces into top of cookies, dividing equally. Bake until cookies look puffed and slightly dry on top, about 13 minutes. Cool cookies on sheets.

Banana Layer Cake with Caramel Cream and Pecans 
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon (generous) fine sea salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 1/2 cups sugar, divided
6 large eggs
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons buttermilk
2 small ripe bananas, peeled, cut into 1/4-inch cubes (about 1 1/2 cups)
1 1/2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
1 small ripe banana, peeled, cut into 1-inch pieces
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
3 3/4 cups chilled heavy whipping cream, divided
4 1/2 teaspoons fresh lime juice, divided
4 1/2 teaspoons dark rum, divided
Sea Salt-Roasted Pecans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Sift flour, baking powder, and sea salt into medium bowl. Beat butter and 1 cup sugar in large bowl until well blended. Add 2 eggs; beat until blended. Add dry ingredients to butter mixture in 4 additions alternately with buttermilk in 3 additions. Beat remaining 4 eggs and remaining 1 1/2 cups sugar in medium bowl until mixture is thick and pale in color, about 4 minutes. Fold egg mixture into batter. Fold in bananas. Divide batter between prepared pans (about 3 1/2 cups for each).
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool 15 minutes. Invert cakes onto racks; cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap in foil; store at room temperature.)
Combine brown sugar, banana, and 3 tablespoons butter in processor; blend until smooth. Add 1 1/2 cups whipping cream; blend. Transfer to heavy medium saucepan. Whisk over medium heat until sugar dissolves and mixture boils. Attach candy thermometer to inside of pan; cook without stirring or swirling pan until temperature registers 218 degrees F, about 10 minutes. Pour caramel into bowl. Cool to room temperature, whisking occasionally.
Whisk remaining 2 1/4 cups whipping cream in large bowl until cream mounds softly. Gradually fold in cool caramel mixture. Chill until cream is firm enough to spread, about 3 hours.
Cut each cake horizontally into 2 layers. Place 1 layer, cut side up, on platter. Drizzle 1 1/2 teaspoons lime juice and 1 1/2 teaspoons rum over. Spread 1 1/4 cups banana cream over. Top with second cake layer. Drizzle 1 1/2 teaspoons lime juice and 1 1/2 teaspoons rum over. Spread 1 1/2 cups cream over. Repeat with third cake layer, lime juice, rum, and cream. Top with fourth cake layer, cut side down; spread remaining cream over top.
Scatter roasted pecans over top of cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate.)

Two-Layer Cake 
1/4 cup unsalted butter (1/2 stick), at room temperature
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 egg
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup cake flour or bleached flour
1/3 cup whole milk
1 cup unsalted butter (2 sticks), at room temperature
2 tablespoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup whole milk
32 ounces confectioners' sugar
1 1/2 cups unsalted butter (3 sticks), at room temperature
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon whole milk
48 ounces confectioners' sugar
4 (or more) different shades of food coloring

1. Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. In a large bowl, stir together the butter and sugar until well combined.
2. Add the egg and vanilla and mix thoroughly. Set aside.
3. In a separate bowl, stir together the baking powder, salt, and flour.
4. Sift the dry ingredients into the butter mixture and stir.
5. Gradually add the milk and stir until the batter is smooth.
6. Grease and flour two 9-inch baking pans, pour the batter in, and bake until a toothpick stuck into the center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Remove
Beat the butter on high until light and fluffy. Add the vanilla and milk and beat while gradually adding the sugar. Cover and refrigerate. Bring to room temperature before frosting the cake.
Beat the butter on high until light and fluffy. Add the vanilla and milk and beat while gradually adding the sugar. Beat again. Divide the mixture among four bowls and stir a couple of drops of food coloring into each. Cut the tips off disposable plastic pastry bags and insert metal flower tips. Fill each bag of the way with colored frosting, then cinch the open ends with rubber bands. To decorate as pictured above, squeeze rosettes onto a 9-inch parchment round and let the frosting set for a few minutes. Using a thin metal spatula, transfer the flowers from the parchment to the frosted cake.

Decorative Icing 
1 (1-lb) box confectioners sugar
4 teaspoons powdered egg whites (not reconstituted) such as Just Whites
1/3 cup water
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract

Beat together all ingredients in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until just combined, about 1 minute.
Increase speed to high and continue to beat until icing holds stiff peaks, about 3 minutes in a stand mixer or 10 with a handheld. If not using icing immediately, cover surface with a dampened paper towel, then cover bowl with plastic wrap.

Chocolate Hazelnut Crinkle Cookies 
2/3 cup hazelnuts
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
6 oz fine-quality bittersweet
chocolate (no more than 60% cacao if marked), finely chopped
2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups packed light brown sugar
2 large eggs
1/4 cup whole milk
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
3/4 cup confectioners sugar
Parchment paper

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Toast hazelnuts in a shallow baking pan in oven until skins split and nuts are pale golden, about 10 minutes. Remove from oven (turn oven off), then wrap hazelnuts in a kitchen towel and rub to remove any loose skins. Cool nuts completely. Pulse nuts with granulated sugar in a food processor until finely chopped.
Melt chocolate in a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water or in top of a double boiler, stirring until smooth. Remove bowl from heat and set aside.
Whisk together flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, and salt in a bowl.
Beat together butter and brown sugar in another bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until creamy, about 3 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in melted chocolate until combined. Add milk and vanilla, beating to incorporate. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture, mixing until just combined. Stir in nut mixture. Cover bowl with plastic wrap and chill dough until firm, 2 to 3 hours.
Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Sift confectioners sugar into a bowl. Halve dough and chill 1 half, wrapped in plastic wrap. Roll remaining half into 1-inch balls, placing them on a sheet of wax paper as rolled. Roll balls, 3 or 4 at a time, in confectioners sugar to coat generously and arrange 2 inches apart on lined baking sheets.
Bake, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until cookies are puffed and cracked and edges feel dry (but centers are still slightly soft), 12 to 18 minutes total. Transfer cookies (still on parchment) to racks to cool completely.
While first batch is baking, roll remaining dough into balls. Line cooled cookie sheets with fresh parchment, then coat balls with confectioners sugar and bake in same manner.

Raspberry Chocolate French Macaroons 
6 oz sliced blanched almonds (not slivered; 2 cups)
1 1/2 cups confectioners sugar
3 large egg whites
3/4 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons granulated sugar
Red or pink food coloring
3 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (60 to 64% cacao), finely chopped
1/3 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, softened
1/16 teaspoon raspberry extract (preferably McCormick brand)
parchment paper; a gallon-size sealable plastic bag (not pleated)

Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper.
Pulse almonds with 1/2 cup confectioners sugar in a food processor until very finely ground, 2 to 3 minutes, then transfer to a bowl. Sift in remaining cup confectioners sugar, stirring to combine.
Beat egg whites with salt in another bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until they just hold soft peaks. Add granulated sugar, a little at a time, beating, then increase speed to high and continue to beat until whites just hold stiff, glossy peaks. Add drops of food coloring to reach desired shade and mix at low speed until evenly combined. Stir almond mixture into meringue with a rubber spatula until completely incorporated. (Meringue will deflate.)
Spoon batter into bag, pressing out excess air, and snip off 1 corner of plastic bag to create a 1/4-inch opening. Twist bag firmly just above batter, then pipe peaked mounds of batter (the size of a chocolate kiss) onto lined sheets about 1 1/2 inches apart. Let cookies stand, uncovered, at room temperature until tops are no longer sticky and a light crust forms, 20 to 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 300 degrees F.
Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until crisp and edges are just slightly darker, 20 to 25 minutes. Cool completely on sheets on racks, about 30 minutes.
Melt chocolate with cream in a metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water or in top of a double boiler, stirring until smooth. (Bowl should not touch water.) Remove bowl from heat, then add butter and raspberry extract, stirring until butter is melted. Let stand at room temperature until cooled completely and slightly thickened.
Carefully peel cookies from parchment (they will be fragile). Sandwich a thin layer of ganache (about 1/2 teaspoon) between flat sides of cookies.

Butter-Nut Blondies 
One half cup (1 stick, 4 ounces) unsalted butter
2 cups (15 ounces) packed dark brown sugar
3 large eggs
1 tablespoon vinegar, preferably apple cider vinegar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon butter-rum, butterscotch or butter-pecan flavor (optional but delicious)
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups (6 ounces) traditional whole wheat flour
1 1/2 (5 5/8 ounces) chopped pecans or walnuts

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees  F. Lightly grease a 9x13-inch pan. Melt the butter in a microwave-safe bowl or in a saucepan set over low heat. Remove from the heat and add the sugar, mixing until well blended. Transfer the mixture to a mixing bowl and let it cool to lukewarm.
Add the eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in the vinegar, vanilla, flavor (if using), baking powder and salt. Stir in the flour and nuts. Spread the batter in the prepared pan.
Bake the blondies until the top looks shiny, 26 to 28 minutes. Don't overbake; bake just until the edges start to pull away from the sides of the pan and a sharp knife tip poked into the very center reveals sticky crumbs but not wet batter. Remove from the oven and run a knife all around the edge of the pan; this will help keep the blondies flat as they cool, by allowing the edges to settle in the pan along with the middle. Cool completely before cutting. If you prefer squares with a very smooth texture, wait 24 hours before cutting; this waiting period gives the bran in the whole wheat time to soften up.

Trio of Mini Pound Cakes 
1 tablespoon poppy seeds
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/4 cup mini chocolate chips
1 teaspoon all-purpose flour
1/2 very ripe banana
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
4 large eggs
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1/4 cup whole milk
1/2 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest

In small bowl, combine poppy seeds and lemon juice. Set aside. In second small bowl, toss together chocolate chips and flour. Set aside. In third small bowl, gently mash banana. Set aside.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9 (4-ounce) disposable mini loaf pans. (If using nondisposable metal pans, butter them, then line with parchment paper and butter paper.)
In medium bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt. In large bowl, using electric mixer fitted with whisk attachment, beat butter at high speed until creamy, about 3 minutes. Add sugar and beat until mixture is light and somewhat fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well at low speed after each addition, then beat in vanilla. Add 1/3 of flour mixture and beat at low speed until not quite combined, about 30 seconds. Add 1/3 of milk and and beat at low speed until not quite combined, about 30 seconds. Repeat with remaining flour mixture and milk, adding in 2 more batches of each. Beat at low speed just until smooth.
Pour 1/3 of batter into medium bowl. Gently stir in poppy seed-lemon juice mixture and lemon zest. Divide among 3 of prepared pans.
Pour 1/2 of remaining batter into medium bowl. Gently fold in chocolate chip-flour mixture and mashed banana. Divide among 3 of prepared pans.
Divide remaining vanilla batter among remaining 3 prepared pans.
Place all pans on large baking sheet. Bake until cakes are puffed and firm to touch and tester inserted into the center comes out with few crumbs attached, about 30 to 40 minutes. Cook on rack.
When cool, wrap each cake in plastic wrap, then parchment or wax paper. Label, stack in groups of 3 (1 of each kind), and tie together with ribbon or twine.

Hazelnut Crunch Cake with Honeyed Kumquats 
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup water
2 cups unhusked hazelnuts, toasted
55 kumquats (about 21 ounces)
1 1/2 cups Chardonnay
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup honey
10 whole star anise* or whole cloves
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
1 cup unhusked hazelnuts, toasted
2 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons Chinese five–spice powder**
3/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 large egg yolks
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon almond extract
1 1/4 cups whole milk
5 large egg whites
1 1/2 8–ounce containers mascarpone
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
3 tablespoons sugar
4 teaspoons Cognac or brandy
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
*Brown, star–shaped seedpods; available in the spice section of some supermarkets, at specialty foods stores, and at Asian markets.
**A spice blend that usually contains ground aniseed, cinnamon, star anise, cloves, or ginger; available in the spice section of most supermarkets.

Line baking sheet with foil. Stir sugar and 1/4 cup water in heavy medium saucepan over medium–low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat; boil without stirring until syrup turns deep amber, brushing down sides with wet pastry brush and swirling pan occasionally. Mix in nuts. Pour onto foil; cool completely. Coarsely chop nut crunch. Set aside.
Starting at rounded end, cut cross into each kumquat to within 1/4 inch of stem end. Bring wine, sugar, honey, and star anise to boil in heavy large saucepan, stirring until sugar dissolves. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean; add bean. Add kumquats; simmer until almost tender, about 8 minutes. Using slotted spoon, transfer kumquats to plate; cool. Seed and finely chop enough kumquats to measure 2/3 cup (reserve remaining kumquats). Gently boil kumquat syrup until reduced to 11/4 cups, about 12 minutes. Cool.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 15 1/2 x 10 1/2 x 1–inch or 17 x 11 x 3/4–inch baking sheet with foil; butter and flour foil. Finely grind nuts with flour in processor; transfer to medium bowl. Whisk in baking powder, spice, and salt. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in yolks and extracts. Beat in dry ingredients alternately with milk in several additions, just until combined. Using clean dry beaters, beat whites in another large bowl until stiff but not dry. Fold 1/3 of whites into batter to lighten, then fold in remaining whites. Spread batter evenly in prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes for 17 x 11–inch cake and 28 minutes for 15 1/2 x 10 1/2–inch cake. Cool cake in pan on rack 20 minutes. Run knife around cake to loosen. Turn cake out onto foil–lined rack; cool completely. Cut hazelnut cake crosswise into 3 equal pieces.
Combine all ingredients in large bowl; beat to soft peaks (do not overbeat or mixture will curdle).
Place 1 cake piece on platter. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over; sprinkle with 1/3 cup chopped kumquats and 1/3 cup nut crunch, then drizzle with 2 tablespoons kumquat syrup. Top with second cake piece. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over; sprinkle with 1/3 cup chopped kumquats and 1/3 cup nut crunch, then drizzle with 2 tablespoons kumquat syrup. Top with third cake piece. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Drain remaining kumquats; remove seeds and any attached pulp. Top cake with kumquats, arranging like flowers. Do ahead Can be made 1 day ahead; cover and chill cake. Store remaining nut crunch and kumquat syrup at room temperature. Press remaining nut crunch around sides of cake. Drizzle 2 tablespoons syrup over cake and serve.

Gale Gand's Pinwheel Cookie Dough 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup unsalted butter, softened
1 1/3 cups sugar
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, finely chopped

In large bowl, sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. In standing mixer fitted with paddle attachment, beat butter until fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add sugar and beat until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes more. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating after each addition, then beat in vanilla. Add flour mixture and beat on low just until combined.
Divide dough in half. Form 1 half into 4- by 4-inch square, wrap in plastic wrap, and set aside. Return other half to mixer. In metal bowl set over pan of barely simmering water, melt chocolate, stirring until smooth. Add melted chocolate to dough in mixer and beat just until combined. Form chocolate dough into 4- by 4-inch square and wrap in plastic wrap. Refrigerate both squares of dough 30 minutes.
Line large baking sheet with parchment paper. Cut each dough square into 4 strips. Place 3 strips of chocolate dough and 4 strips of vanilla dough on baking sheet and refrigerate. Between 2 sheets of parchment paper, roll out 4th strip of chocolate dough into 6- by 7-inch rectangle (use ruler to make sure dimensions are exact). Remove 1 strip of vanilla dough from refrigerator and, between 2 sheets of parchment paper, roll out into 6- by 6-inch square. Peel off top sheet of parchment from each dough and flip vanilla dough over onto chocolate, aligning top and bottom edges and allowing 1/2 inch of chocolate dough to stick out on each side. Run rolling pin lightly over doughs to adhere, then peel off top sheet of parchment. Fold extra 1/2 inch of chocolate dough over vanilla on 1 side. Starting on folded-over side and using parchment as aid, tightly roll up dough into log. Wrap in plastic wrap and refrigerate. Repeat with remaining strips of dough to form 4 logs.
Refrigerate logs 1 hour, then remove from refrigerator and roll each log on counter several times to prevent bottom from flattening. Refrigerate 3 hours more, then transfer to freezer. When frozen, wrap in parchment paper, twist ends, and tie with decorative ribbon. Attach card with baking instructions for each log:
Keep dough frozen until ready to slice and bake. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and grease 2 large baking sheets. Using sharp knife, slice dough into 1/4-inch-thick slices and place 1 1/2 inches apart on baking sheet. Bake until vanilla dough is slightly golden, 9 to 11 minutes. Makes 20 cookies.

Sand Tarts 
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) salted butter, softened, plus additional for greasing
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 whole large egg, lightly beaten
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 large egg white, lightly beaten

Stir together butter and 1 cup sugar vigorously with a wooden spoon in a large bowl until combined well, then stir in whole egg and vanilla until smooth. Add flour and stir until just incorporated.
Transfer dough to a 24-inch-long sheet of wax paper. Using sheet as an aid, roll dough into a 12-inch-long log (2 inches wide). Chill, wrapped in wax paper, until firm, at least 4 hours.
Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Lightly grease 2 large baking sheets with additional butter.
Stir together cinnamon and remaining 2 tablespoons sugar in a small bowl.
Cut chilled log crosswise into 1/8- to 1/4-inch-thick slices, arranging slices about 1 inch apart to fill both baking sheets (chill remainder of log wrapped in wax paper). Lightly brush sliced cookies with some egg white, then sprinkle with some of cinnamon-sugar mixture.
Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until edges are golden, 12 to 15 minutes total. Cool on sheets 3 minutes, then transfer with a metal spatula to racks to cool completely. Repeat with remaining dough, cooling and greasing baking sheets between batches.

Five-Spice Gingersnaps 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 3/4 teaspoons Chinese five-spice powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons finely chopped crystallized ginger
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup Lyle's Golden Syrup
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 large egg
Garnish: decorative icing (optional).
parchment paper; a 2 1/2-inch round cookie cutter; a piping tip with a 1/4-inch plain round opening (if making cookies into ornaments); pastry bags or several small heavy-duty sealable plastic bags (optional)

Whisk together flour, five-spice powder, baking soda, and salt in a small bowl.
Pulse ginger with 1/4 cup sugar in a food processor until finely ground.
Add syrup, butter, egg, and remaining 3/4 cup sugar to processor and blend until mixture is thick and creamy, about 3 minutes. Add flour mixture and pulse just until a dough forms. Form dough into a disk and chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, at least 8 hours to allow flavors to develop.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Quarter dough. Keeping remaining 3 pieces wrapped in plastic wrap and chilled, roll out 1 piece of dough on a lightly floured sheet of wax paper with a lightly floured rolling pin to 3/4 inch thick. (If dough becomes too soft to roll out, chill on wax paper until firm.) Cut out rounds with cutter and transfer to 1 lined baking sheet, arranging cookies about 2 inches apart.
Bake cookies until slightly puffed and a shade darker, 10 to 12 minutes. Cool 5 minutes on sheet. If desired, make holes with piping tip near edges to hang cookies, then transfer cookies (still on parchment) to a rack to cool completely. (Cookies will flatten slightly as they cool.)
While first batch is baking, roll out and cut another batch, arranging cookies on second lined sheet. Bake in same manner, then gather scraps and chill until dough is firm enough to reroll, 15 to 20 minutes. Make more cookies with scraps (reroll scraps only once) and remaining pieces of dough, cooling sheets and lining them with fresh parchment before using.
If using icing and coloring it, transfer small batches of icing to small bowls, 1 for each color, and tint with food coloring. Spoon each color of icing into a separate pastry bag, pressing out excess air. Twist bag firmly just above icing, then decoratively pipe icing onto cookies. Let icing dry completely (about 1 hour, depending on humidity) before serving or storing cookies.

Pumpkin Bread Pudding 
1 1/2 cups cake flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 tablespoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons grape seed oil
1 cup canned solid-pack pumpkin (not pie filling)*
2 large eggs
3/4 cup canned solid-pack pumpkin (not pie filling)*
1 1/4 cups whole milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup maple syrup
8 large egg yolks
Accompaniment: vanilla ice cream (optional)
*1 (15-ounce) can solid-pack pumpkin = 1 3/4 cups, just enough for the cake and the pudding.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 17- by 12-inch rimmed baking sheet. Line bottom with parchment paper.
In large bowl, whisk together flour, baking soda, baking powder, cinnamon, allspice, ginger, cloves, nutmeg, and salt. Set aside.
In bowl of electric mixer, combine brown and granulated sugars, oil, and pumpkin. Beat at medium speed until fully combined, about 1 to 2 minutes. Reduce speed to low and gradually add flour mixture. Beat until combined, scraping down sides of bowl occasionally. Add eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition.
Spread batter evenly in prepared pan and bake until toothpick inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 to 30 minutes. Transfer cake to rack and cool completely in pan.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Run knife around pan sides to loosen, then turn cake out onto rack (do not clean pan) and remove parchment paper. Using long, serrated knife, cut cake into 1/2-inch cubes. Return cubes to pan and bake, turning over halfway through baking, until light brown on all sides, about 15 minutes total. Transfer cubes to rack and cool completely in pan.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F.
Divide toasted cubes among 8 (4-ounce) ramekins. In medium bowl, whisk together pumpkin, milk, salt, maple syrup, and egg yolks. Pour mixture over cake cubes, filling ramekins to tops and gently pressing on cubes to completely coat with liquid. Cover and refrigerate until liquid is absorbed, about 30 minutes.
Arrange ramekins in roasting pan. Add enough hot water to pan to reach halfway up sides of ramekins. Cover pan tightly with foil and bake until puddings are set and firm to the touch, about 30 to 35 minutes.
Remove ramekins from pan and serve warm with vanilla ice cream, if desired.

Italian Almond Cookies 
2 1/4 cups blanched whole almonds (about 12 ounces), plus 15 for garnishing
2/3 cup sugar
2 large egg whites, at room temperature
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon pure almond extract
1/4 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
15 glacéed cherries

Arrange racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly oil 2 large baking sheets, then line with parchment paper.
In food processor, combine 2 1/4 cups almonds and 1/3 cup sugar. Process until finely ground, scraping down sides once or twice. Set aside.
In electric mixer fitted with whisk attachment, beat egg whites and salt at high speed until soft peaks form. Reduce speed to medium and gradually sprinkle in remaining 1/3 cup sugar. Return speed to high and beat mixture until stiff, shiny peaks form. Gently fold in ground almond mixture and almond and vanilla extracts.
Roll mixture into 1-inch balls, place 2 inches apart on baking sheets, and flatten slightly. Top each with glacéed cherry or almond. Bake until cookies are golden, switching positions of pans halfway through, about 25 minutes. Cool on sheets 5 minutes, then transfer to racks to cool completely.
Cookies keep, wrapped, several days, or frozen, several weeks. Recrisp in warm oven.

Pistachio and Cherry Mexican Wedding Cakes 
2 cups (4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup powdered sugar plus more for coating
2 tablespoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup shelled unsalted natural pistachios (about 4 ounces), chopped
1 cup dried tart cherries or dried cranberries
3 1/3 cups sifted cake flour
1 2/3 cups sifted all purpose flour

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 3 heavy large baking sheets. Using electric mixer, beat 2 cups butter and 1 cup powdered sugar in large bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in vanilla and salt, then pistachios and cherries. Using spatula, stir in all flour (do not overmix dough).
Shape dough by generous tablespoonfuls into football-shaped ovals. Place on prepared sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until bottoms just begin to color, about 16 minutes. Cool cookies on sheets 10 minutes before coating.
Pour generous amount of powdered sugar into medium bowl. Working with 5 or 6 warm cookies at a time, add cookies to bowl of sugar; gently turn to coat thickly. Transfer cookies to sheet of waxed paper. Repeat to coat cookies with sugar again; cool completely. do ahead Can be made 4 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.

Cranberry Cupcakes with Dulce de Leche Pecan Frosting 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/2 cup whole milk
3/4 cup dried cranberries (3 oz), finely chopped
5 tablespoons cream cheese, softened
1/2 cup dulce de leche
1/2 cup pecans (2 oz), finely chopped, toasted, and cooled
12 paper muffin-cup liners; a muffin pan with 12 (1/3- to 1/2-cup) muffin cups

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Put liners in muffin cups.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt in a bowl.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until pale and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Beat in egg and vanilla. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture and milk alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing just until incorporated. Fold in cranberries.
Divide batter among muffin cups. Bake until pale golden and a wooden pick or skewer inserted into center of a cupcake comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes. Turn cupcakes out onto a rack and cool 15 minutes. 3Meanwhile, beat cream cheese in a bowl with cleaned beaters until smooth, then add dulce de leche and a pinch of salt and beat until combined well. Stir in half of pecans.
Spread frosting generously on cooled cupcakes and sprinkle with remaining pecans.

White Chocolate, Cranberry, and Macadamia Nut Cookies 
3 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3/4 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups dried cranberries (about 6 ounces)
1 1/2 cups white chocolate chips (about 8 1/2 ounces)
1 cup coarsely chopped roasted salted macadamia nuts (about 4 1/2 ounces)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Sift first 3 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add both sugars and beat until blended. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, then vanilla. Add dry ingredients and beat just until blended. Using spatula, stir in cranberries, white chocolate chips, and nuts.
For large cookies, drop dough by heaping tablespoonfuls onto prepared sheets, spacing 21/2 inches apart. For small cookies, drop dough by level tablespoonfuls onto sheets, spacing 11/2 inches apart.
Bake cookies until just golden, about 18 minutes for large cookies and about 15 minutes for small cookies. Cool on sheets. Do ahead Can be made ahead. Store airtight at room temperature up to 2 days or freeze up to 2 weeks.

Pistachio Cranberry Icebox Cookies 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon finely grated fresh orange zest
1/2 cup shelled pistachios (2 1/4 oz; not dyed red)
1/3 cup dried cranberries (1 1/4 oz)
1 large egg, lightly beaten
1/4 cup decorative sugar (preferably coarse)
parchment paper

Stir together flour, cinnamon, and salt in a bowl.
Beat together butter, granulated sugar, and zest in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture in 3 batches, mixing until dough just comes together in clumps, then mix in pistachios and cranberries. Gather and press dough together, then divide into 2 equal pieces. Using a sheet of plastic wrap or wax paper as an aid, form each piece of dough into a log about 1 1/2 inches in diameter. Square off long sides of each log to form a bar, then chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until very firm, at least 2 hours.
Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Brush egg over all 4 long sides of bars (but not ends). Sprinkle decorative sugar on a separate sheet of parchment or wax paper and press bars into sugar, coating well.
Cut each bar crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick slices, rotating bar after cutting each slice to help keep square shape. (If dough gets too soft to slice, freeze bars briefly until firm.) Arrange cookies about 1/2 inch apart on lined baking sheets.
Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until edges are pale golden, 15 to 18 minutes total. Transfer cookies from parchment to racks using a slotted spatula and cool completely.

Gilded Sesame Cookies 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup well-stirred tahini
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1/3 cup sesame seeds (preferably hulled)
1/4 teaspoon gold or silver luster dust (optional)
parchment paper

Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt in a small bowl.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes, then beat in tahini and vanilla. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture in 2 batches, mixing until a crumbly dough forms. Transfer dough to a sheet of plastic wrap and press into a disk. Chill dough, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, at least 1 hour.
Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Stir together sesame seeds and luster dust (if using) in a small bowl.
Roll dough into 1-inch balls, then roll balls 1 at a time in seeds to coat and arrange 2 inches apart on lined baking sheets. Bake, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until cookies are puffed and starting to crack, 12 to 15 minutes total. Cool on sheets 10 minutes (cookies will be very fragile when hot), then transfer from parchment to a rack to cool completely.

Tea-and-Honey Crisps 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup confectioners sugar
1/4 cup mild honey
2 1/4 teaspoons decaffeinated Earl Grey tea leaves (from 2 to 3 tea bags)
2 large egg whites
1 cup all-purpose flour
disposable Styrofoam plates; a small sharp knife such as an X-Acto; a 17- by 11-inch nonstick bakeware liner such as Silpat; a small offset spatula

Draw desired shape of cookie on a Styrofoam plate, then cut out shape with X-Acto knife and discard shape. If desired, cut out additional shapes from same plate. Trim plate, leaving a 1-inch border around stencil(s). Make more stencils with more plates if desired.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line a large baking sheet with nonstick liner.
Beat together butter, confectioners sugar, honey, and tea leaves in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until combined well. Add egg whites 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Reduce speed to low, then mix in flour until just combined.
Place stencil on liner and spread batter with spatula over stencil to completely cover opening. Carefully lift stencil from liner and stencil more cookies in same manner about 1 inch apart. Bake until edges are deep golden brown, 6 to 9 minutes. Cool cookies 1 minute on sheet, then transfer with spatula to a rack to cool completely. (To curl cookies, drape while hot over handles of wooden spoons or rolling pins to cool.) Stencil and bake more cookies with remaining batter.

Pink Cuts 
Butter for greasing baking pan
1 cup minus 1/2 tablespoon cake flour (not self-rising)
1/4 teaspoon salt
5 large eggs, separated
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
Confectioners sugar for dusting
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1/2 cup whole milk
1 large egg yolk
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup confectioners sugar
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 rounded tablespoon red-currant jelly
4 to 5 tablespoons hot water
2 cups confectioners sugar, sifted
1/2 teaspoon kirsch (optional)
parchment paper; a clean kitchen towel (not terry cloth); an offset spatula

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter sides of a 17- by 12- by 1-inch baking pan and line bottom with parchment paper. 3Sift flour with salt into a bowl.
Beat egg whites in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until they just hold soft peaks, then add granulated sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating, and continue to beat until whites hold stiff, glossy peaks, 3 to 4 minutes in a stand mixer or 4 to 6 with a handheld. Add yolks and vanilla and beat until very thick, about 2 minutes.
Sift flour mixture into egg mixture in 3 batches, folding in each batch gently but thoroughly. Spread batter evenly in lined baking pan.
Bake until top of cake is pale golden and springs back when pressed lightly, 5 to 18 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 5 minutes, then run a small knife around edges to loosen. Lightly dust top with confectioners sugar. Invert pan onto kitchen towel, then remove pan and peel off parchment. Cool cake completely, about 15 minutes.
Whisk together cornstarch and milk in a 1-quart heavy saucepan until smooth. Bring to a boil over moderate heat, whisking constantly, then boil, whisking constantly, 1 minute. Whisk milk mixture gradually into egg yolk in a small bowl. Return mixture to saucepan and cook over moderate heat, whisking constantly, 1 minute. Transfer to a metal bowl, then put bowl into a larger bowl of ice and cold water and cool pastry cream, stirring occasionally, to room temperature, 6 to 8 minutes.
Beat butter with confectioners sugar (1/4 cup) and vanilla in a medium bowl with cleaned beaters at medium speed until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Beat cooled pastry cream, 1 tablespoon at a time, into butter mixture until smooth.
Halve cake lengthwise, then transfer half to a cutting board and spread with all of pastry cream. Top with other half.

Orange Blossom Cheesecake with Raspberry and Pomegranate Sauce 
1 3/4 cups graham cracker crumbs (about 12 whole graham crackers)
1 1/4 cups walnuts (about 5 ounces)
6 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
5 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 2/3 cups sugar
3 tablespoons all purpose flour
2 tablespoons grated orange peel
2 teaspoons orange-flower water*
5 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
4 cups pomegranate juice
2 (12-ounce) bags frozen unsweetened raspberries (unthawed)
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup honey
*A flavoring extract; available at some supermarkets, liquor stores, and Middle Eastern markets.

Wrap foil around outside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 3-inch-high sides. Butter pan. Blend first 5 ingredients in processor until nuts are ground. Using on/off turns, blend in butter until crumbs are moist. Press onto bottom and 2 inches up sides of pan.
Preheat oven to 500 degrees F. Using electric mixer, blend first 5 ingredients in large bowl. Blend in eggs and yolks 1 at a time. Pour into crust.
Bake cheesecake until slightly puffed and beginning to brown in spots, about 12 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 200 degrees F and continue baking until gently set in center (edges may crack), about 1 hour. Transfer to rack and cool 5 minutes. Run knife around pan sides to loosen. Cool completely. Cover and refrigerate overnight. Do ahead: Can be made 2 days ahead; keep refrigerated.
Bring juice to boil in heavy large saucepan. Reduce heat; simmer until reduced to 1 cup, about 35 minutes. Mix in raspberries and sugar. Simmer until reduced to 3 cups, stirring frequently, about 20 minutes. Mix in honey; bring to simmer. Cool slightly. Cover; chill until cold. Do ahead Can be made 1 day ahead; keep refrigerated.
Release pan sides. Cut cheesecake into wedges and transfer to plates. Spoon sauce over cheesecake; serve.

Olive Oil Couscous Cake with Crème Fraîche and Date Syrup 
1 cup all purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1/2 cup uncooked couscous
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
1/4 cup sweet Muscat wine (such as Beaumes-de-Venise or Bonny Doon)
6 large egg yolks
3 large eggs
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon finely grated orange peel
1 cup chilled heavy whipping cream
1/4 cup chilled créme fraîche
1/2 cup date syrup*
12 dates (such as Deglet Noor or Medjool), pitted, thinly sliced
*Available at Middle Eastern markets and from igourmet.com.

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Brush 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 3-inch-high sides with olive oil. Line bottom of pan with parchment paper round; brush parchment with olive oil. Sift flour, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Stir in couscous. Whisk olive oil and Muscat in another medium bowl to blend.
Using stand mixer fitted with whisk attachment, beat egg yolks, eggs, and 1 cup sugar on high speed in large bowl until thick and pale yellow, about 7 minutes. Transfer to large wide bowl. Stir in orange peel. Using rubber spatula, gently fold in flour mixture alternately with olive oil mixture in 4 additions each (mixture may deflate slightly). Transfer batter to prepared pan. Tap pan lightly on work surface to eliminate any air bubbles.
Bake cake until dark brown and beginning to pull away from sides of pan and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Transfer cake to rack and cool in pan at least 30 minutes. Turn cake out onto platter (cake may fall slightly in center). Do ahead Can be made 1 day ahead. Cool. Cover with foil and store at room temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream and créme fraîche in large bowl until soft peaks form.
Cut cake into wedges. Place 1 cake wedge on each plate. Drizzle date syrup over. Spoon whipped cream alongside. Sprinkle dates over.

Pumpkin Ginger Cheesecake Pie 
1 gingersnap crumb crust baked and cooled
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup chopped crystallized ginger
8 ounces cream cheese, softened
2 large eggs
1/4 cup whole milk
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup canned solid-pack pumpkin (from a 15-ounces can)

Make gingersnap crumb crust and reserve.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Pulse sugar and ginger in a food processor until ginger is finely chopped, then add cream cheese and pulse until smooth. Add eggs, milk, flour, nutmeg, and salt and pulse until just combined.
Reserve 2/3 cup cream cheese mixture in a glass measure. Whisk together remaining 1 1/3 cups cream cheese mixture and pumpkin in a large bowl until combined.
Pour pumpkin mixture into gingersnap crumb crust. Stir reserved cream cheese mixture (in glass measure) and drizzle decoratively over top of pumpkin mixture, then, if desired, swirl with back of a spoon. Put pie on a baking sheet and bake until center is just set, 35 to 45 minutes. Transfer to a rack and cool to room temperature, about 2 hours, then chill, loosely covered with foil, at least 4 hours. If necessary, very gently blot any moisture from surface with paper towels before serving.

Black and White Cupcakes 
1 (8-ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1 large egg, at room temperature
1 1/3 cups sugar, divided
1 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup warm water
1/3 cup vegetable oil
1 tablespoon apple cider vinegar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees.
Line 2 muffin tins with cupcake papers.
In a medium bowl, beat the cream cheese, egg, and one third cup of sugar on the medium speed of an electric mixer until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Stir in the chocolate chips and set aside.
In a large bowl, thoroughly combine the flour, the remaining cup of sugar, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt. Make a well in the center of the dry ingredients and add the water, oil, vinegar, and vanilla. Mix the wet and dry ingredients until just blended.
Fill each muffin cup one-third full with the cocoa batter, then top with a spoonful of the cream cheese mixture until the paper is about two-thirds full. Bake 25 to 30 minutes, or until the tops spring back when lightly touched. Let the cupcakes cool in the pans for 10 minutes. Remove from the pans and cool completely on a wire rack.

Dark Fruit Cake 
1/4 pound butter, or 1/2 cup shortening
1 cup dark-brown sugar, firmly packed
1 teaspoon lemon extract
2 eggs
1/2 cup molasses
2 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon allspice
1/2 teaspoon mace
1/4 teaspoon cloves
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup milk
2 cups small pieces mixed candied fruit
1/2 cup small pieces candied citron
1 cup raisins
1 cup chopped pecans

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Butter two 9x5-inch loaf pans, line them with foil, then butter the foil. Cream the butter or shortening, add the brown sugar, and beat until light. Add the lemon extract and eggs and beat well. Stir in the molasses and blend. Mix together the flour, baking soda, cinnamon, allspice, mace, cloves, and salt; beat into the first mixture. Add the milk and beat until smooth. Stir in the candied fruit, citron, raisins, and pecans, and mix well. Spoon into the pans and bake for 1 to 1 1/4 hours, or until a toothpick comes out clean. Turn out onto racks to cool. When completely cool, wrap well and store in an airtight container.
Soak two large pieces of cheesecloth in brandy. Wrap each fruit cake in the cheesecloth, covering all sides, then wrap well in foil. Moisten the cheesecloth with additional brandy every few days for about a week. The brandy will flavor the cake and help preserve it too.

Small Pear and Almond Cakes 
12 firm small Seckel pears (2 to 3 inches long)
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
2 cups Essencia or other Muscat wine
1/2 tablespoon unsalted butter
1 1/2 cups whole blanched almonds (1/2 lb)
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened, plus additional for greasing ramekins
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
4 large eggs
2/3 cup all-purpose flour plus additional for dusting
3/8 teaspoon salt
a small melon-ball cutter; 12 (4-oz) ramekins or 2 muffin pans with 6 large (1-cup) muffin cups

Peel pears, leaving stems intact, then core from bottom with melon-ball cutter. Toss pears with lemon juice in a bowl as peeled, then arrange on their sides in a 10-inch heavy skillet. Add wine, butter, and lemon juice from bowl (liquid will not cover pears) and bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer, covered, until pears are just tender, 10 to 20 minutes. Transfer pears with a slotted spoon to a dish. Boil poaching liquid, uncovered, until just syrupy and reduced to about 1/4 cup, 12 to 15 minutes. Spoon syrup over pears and cool to room temperature, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Pulse almonds with 1/2 cup sugar in a food processor until finely ground, then transfer to a bowl (do not clean processor).
Process butter with 1/2 cup sugar in processor until pale and creamy, then pulse in vanilla. Add eggs 1 at a time, blending well after each addition, then pulse in almond mixture, flour, and salt until just combined.
Lightly butter and flour ramekins, knocking out excess flour, then arrange in a baking pan. Divide batter among ramekins (about a slightly rounded 1/2 cup per ramekin), then gently nestle a pear, leaning it slightly and pressing it very lightly, into batter in center of each cake. (Cakes will rise around pears as they bake.) Reserve reduced poaching liquid for another use. Sprinkle pears and tops of cakes with remaining tablespoon sugar.
Bake, rotating pan halfway through baking, until cakes are just firm and pale golden with slightly darker edges, about 20 minutes.
Transfer ramekins to a rack and cool 10 minutes, then run a thin knife around edge of each cake and invert onto a plate. Turn cakes right side up and serve warm or at room temperature.

Chocolate-Pistachio Torte with Warm Chocolate Ganache 
12 ounces shelled unsalted natural pistachios (untoasted; about 2 2/3 cups)
2 tablespoons sugar
2 large egg whites
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
6 large eggs, separated
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons (packed) golden brown sugar
2 cups heavy whipping cream
15 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
Chopped pistachios

Finely grind nuts and sugar in processor. Add egg whites and blend well. DO AHEAD Can be made 3 days ahead. Transfer to small bowl, cover, and refrigerate.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 8-inch-diameter springform pan. Line pan bottom with parchment paper; butter paper. Place chocolate in medium metal bowl set over saucepan of simmering water and stir until chocolate is melted and smooth. Remove from over water. Cool chocolate to lukewarm.
Measure 1/3 cup pistachio paste and transfer to small bowl (cover and reserve for another use). Place remaining pistachio paste in large bowl; add butter. Using electric mixer, beat until blended. Beat in egg yolks, then melted chocolate. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites with salt in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 2 tablespoons sugar, beating until firm peaks form. Sift brown sugar over and fold in. Using flexible rubber spatula, fold egg-white mixture into chocolate mixture in 4 additions; transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake torte until center is slightly puffed and tester inserted into center comes out with some batter still attached, about 1 hour. Cool torte completely in pan on rack. DO AHEAD Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.
Bring cream to simmer in small saucepan. Remove from heat; add chocolate and whisk until smooth. DO AHEAD Can be made 1 day ahead. Chill. Rewarm before using.
Cut torte into wedges; place on plates. Pour warm ganache over. Sprinkle with pistachios and serve.

Butter Shortbread Cookies 
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 1/3 cups sugar
2 teaspoons kosher salt
3 egg yolks
2 tablespoons vanilla extract
Interior scrapings of 1/2 split vanilla bean, preferably Tahitian
3 3/4 cups all-purpose flour

1. In the bowl of a mixer, combine butter, sugar and salt and cream on medium speed until blended, about 2 minutes. One by one, add the egg yolks, mixing until incorporated. Add the vanilla extract and the scrapings of the vanilla bean. Scrape down the bowl.
2. Turn the mixer off and add the flour. Turn the machine to low and mix until the flour is completely incorporated. Remove the dough from the bowl. Working on parchment or wax paper, form dough into 4 logs 10 inches long and 1 1/4 inches in diameter; wrap and chill.
3. Use each log to make a different cookie: classic shortbread , five-spice shortbread , double chocolate-ginger shortbread , and .

Chestnut Cheesecake 
4 ounces (2 cups) Graham cracker crumbs
1/2 stick butter
1 heaped tablespoon sweetened chestnut purée
2 cups cream cheese
3/4 cup superfine sugar
3 eggs
3 egg yolks
3/4 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon lime juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1–2 tablespoons rum
1 cup sweetened chestnut purée
1/3 cup water
1/4 cup rum
1 tablespoon sweetened chestnut purée
1/4 cup superfine sugar
1 tablespoon butter

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F, and put the kettle on to boil.
For the base, process the crackers, butter and heaped tablespoon chestnut purée until like fine crumbs. Press the mixture into the bottom of a 9 inch springform pan and place in the fridge while you make the filling.
Beat the cream cheese until smooth and add the sugar. Add the eggs and egg yolks, beating them in one by one until they are incorporated into the cream cheese and sugar. Pour in the sour cream, lime juice, vanilla extract and rum, and beat again until smooth and creamy. Finally fold in the sweetened chestnut purée. Don't worry about making a fully amalgamated mixture: smooth cream cheese with grainy streaks of chestnut is just fine.
Line the outside of the springform pan containing the crumb base with a good wrapping of plastic wrap, so that the whole of the bottom and sides are enveloped in plastic. Do the same with aluminum foil, covering the layer of plastic wrap to make a very watertight casing. Stand the springform, thus covered, in a roasting pan and pour in the chestnut filling. Once that's done, pour water from a recently boiled kettle into the roasting pan to come just over an inch up the side of the pan (the plastic wrap will make it bob up and down a bit) and place in the oven to cook for an hour.
When the cheesecake's ready it should be just set on top with a hint of wobble underneath; it certainly carries on cooking as it cools. Take the cheesecake out of the roasting pan, take off the foil and plastic wrap and let the cheesecake cool on a rack. Refrigerate overnight before unmolding and leaving it to get back to room temperature. If you need to unmold it long before you want to eat it (I often do just because I like to get all bothersome stuff out of the way before people arrive) then just sit it on its serving plate in the fridge until about 20–30 minutes before you want to eat it. I'd take it out as you sit down to dinner or lunch or whatever.
You can make the syrup in advance but do not pour over until the actual point of serving.
You just put all of the syrup ingredients into a saucepan and melt together. Let the syrup boil for 10 minutes, then cool to just warmish (or even room temperature) before criss-crossing the top of the cheesecake with it.

Frozen Eggnog Mousse Torte 
2 cups pecans, toasted (about 7 1/2 ounces)
1 cup blanched slivered almonds, toasted (about 4 ounces)
1/2 cup firmly packed golden brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
4 ounces imported white chocolate, finely chopped
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup water
8 large egg yolks
2 1/4 cups chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup good-quality brandy
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
3/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
Chocolate Disks and Lace
Unsweetened whipped cream

Finely chop pecans, almonds, sugar and nutmeg in processor using on/off turns, stopping once to stir mixture. Transfer to large bowl. Combine butter and vanilla in small bowl. Pour over nuts and mix thoroughly. Transfer nut mixture to 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Using plastic wrap as aid, press firmly up sides and then over bottom of pan, covering completely. Freeze 15 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350F. Place pan with crust on cookie sheet and bake 20 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool.
Melt 3 ounces bittersweet chocolate in top of double boiler over barely simmering water, stirring until smooth. Spread over bottom of crust. Cover with plastic and freeze until ready to use.
Melt white chocolate in top of double boiler over barely simmering water, stirring until smooth. Remove from heat. Cook sugar and water in heavy small saucepan over medium heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and boil without stirring until candy thermometer registers 238F (tilting pan slightly to submerge thermometer), about 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, beat yolks in medium bowl until pale yellow and thick.
Gradually beat hot syrup into yolks. Scrape down sides of bowl with rubber spatula. Continue beating until thick and cool, about 5 minutes. Set aside.
In large bowl, whip 2 1/4 cups cream, brandy, vanilla and nutmeg to firm peaks. Fold barely lukewarm white chocolate into yolk mixture. Gently fold in whipped cream. Pour 1/3 of filling into crust; smooth top. Top with 1 chocolate disk. Gently pour another 1/3 of filling over; smooth top. Top with second chocolate disk. Gently pour remaining filling over. Freeze overnight. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Cover pan tightly with plastic wrap.)
Place chocolate lace atop mousse. Spoon unsweetened whipped cream into pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Pipe cream decoratively around edge of cake. Serve immediately.

Caramel Macadamia Nut Crunch 
1 cup sugar
1 cup heavy cream
1 pound macadamia pieces, or whole nuts, roughly chopped
1 chilled log of butter shortbread cookie dough

1. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Grease a baking sheet, preferably rimmed.
2. In a medium saucepan, combine sugar and 1/2 cup of water. Heat over medium heat until mixture begins to simmer, about 3 minutes. Cover the pan and continue to simmer, allowing steam from cooking mixture to wash down the sides of the pan. Remove cover and continue to simmer until the mixture turns golden, 7 to 8 minutes. Immediately remove from the stove, and, to avoid mixture bubbling over, carefully pour cream in a slow, steady stream into the pan; do not stir. Return the pot to the stove, reduce heat to low, and, using a wooden spoon, gently stir mixture until cream is completely incorporated.
3. Transfer the caramel to a medium heat-proof bowl, add the nuts, and stir to coat the nuts evenly. Transfer the mixture to a baking sheet, spreading it evenly, and bake until dark brown, 12 to 15 minutes. Cool the brittle to room temperature and chop mixture coarsely using a food processor, a cleaver or by hand.
4. Cut the log into twenty 1/2-inch rounds, press one cut side of each round into the brittle, and arrange the rounds 2 inches apart on all sides on a parchment-lined or nonstick cookie sheet or sheets.
5. Bake until golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes. Remove the cookies with a spatula and cool on a wire rack.

Key Lime Cheesecake 
6 large egg yolks
3/4 cup sugar
6 tablespoons fresh Key lime juice or regular lime juice
1 teaspoon grated Key lime peel or regular lime peel
1 3/4 cups graham cracker crumbs (about 12 whole graham crackers)
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
2 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, room temperature
2/3 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar
2 large eggs
3 tablespoons fresh Key lime juice or regular lime juice
1 tablespoon grated Key lime peel or regular lime peel
1 16-ounce container sour cream
Thin lime slices

Whisk all ingredients in heavy small saucepan over medium heat until custard thickens and boils for 30 seconds, about 8 minutes. Cool to room temperature, stirring occasionally (mixture will thicken).
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Wrap 3 layers of foil around outside of 8- to 8 1/2-inch-diameter springform pan with 3-inch-high sides. Butter pan. Stir first 3 ingredients to blend in medium bowl. Mix in butter until moistened. Press crumb mixture evenly onto bottom and 1 1/2 inches up sides of prepared pan. Bake just until set, about 5 minutes. Cool completely. Maintain oven temperature.
Place cream cheese, 2/3 cup sugar, eggs, lime juice, and lime peel in processor; blend well.
Spoon custard into crust; smooth top. Carefully spoon filling over. Set cheesecake in large baking pan. Add enough hot water to baking pan to come 1 inch up sides of cheesecake pan. Bake until almost set but not puffed and center moves slightly when pan is gently shaken, about 45 minutes.
Meanwhile, stir sour cream and remaining 3 tablespoons sugar in medium bowl to blend.
Carefully spoon sour cream mixture over hot cheesecake; smooth top. Bake until topping sets, about 10 minutes. Cool 10 minutes. Run knife around sides of pan to loosen. Cool cheesecake completely. Cover and refrigerate overnight. Do ahead Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep refrigerated. Release pan sides from cheesecake; transfer to platter. Garnish with lime slices and serve.

Honey Pan Dulce with Nuts and Dried Fruit 
3/4 cup warm milk (120 degrees F), divided
1 teaspoon plus 6 tablespoons sugar
2 envelopes active dry yeast
3 3/4 cups (about) all purpose flour, divided
2 large eggs
1/4 cup honey
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, very soft room temperature
1 teaspoon (packed) finely grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon (packed) finely grated orange peel
1 1/4 teaspoons salt
1/4 cup chopped candied orange slices* or candied orange peel
1/4 cup raisins
1/4 cup chopped Calimyrna figs
1/4 cup dried tart cherries
1/4 cup chopped roasted salted cashews
1/4 cup chopped toasted almonds
Nonstick vegetable oil spray

Place 1/2 cup warm milk and 1 teaspoon sugar in large bowl; sprinkle yeast over and stir to blend. Let stand until yeast dissolves and mixture looks foamy, about 5 minutes. Mix in 1/2 cup flour to form soft sponge. Cover sponge and let stand until very light and bubbly, about 30 minutes.
Whisk eggs, honey, butter, lemon and orange peel, salt, remaining 1/4 cup milk, and 6 tablespoons sugar in medium bowl to blend. Stir egg mixture into sponge. Mix in 3 cups flour, 1 cup at a time, to form soft dough. Mix in additional flour, 1 tablespoon at a time, until dough is soft and just barely sticky. Turn out onto floured work surface. Knead dough until smooth and elastic, sprinkling with more flour by tablespoonfuls if still sticky, about 8 minutes.
Butter another large bowl. Form dough into ball. Place in bowl; turn to coat. Cover bowl with plastic wrap. Let dough rise in warm draft-free area until doubled in volume, about 1 1/2 hours.
Gently press dough down. Sprinkle with all fruits and nuts; knead in bowl to distribute evenly.
Remove center tube of an angel food cake pan and place an 8-inch-diameter tart pan bottom inside to create 12-cup baking mold. Spray mold with nonstick spray, then butter and flour pan. Form dough into round. Place in prepared pan. Cover with plastic wrap. Let rise in warm draft-free area until almost doubled in volume and almost level with top of pan, about 1 hour 15 minutes.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Bake pan dulce until deep brown on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Let stand in pan 5 minutes. Turn out onto rack and cool completely. DO AHEAD Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap in foil and store at room temperature.
*Available at some specialty foods stores and candy stores.

Cornmeal Pound Cake with Rosemary Syrup, Poached Pears, and Candied Rosemary 
3 cups water
2 cups sugar
1 cup dry or off-dry Riesling
3 fresh rosemary sprigs
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
1/4 teaspoon whole black peppercorns
8 Forelle pears or other small pears, peeled, stems left intact
1 cup all purpose flour
1 cup yellow cornmeal
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/3 cups sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
5 large eggs, beaten to blend in medium bowl
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup water
8 (4-inch-long) fresh rosemary sprigs
Baker's sugar or other superfine sugar

Combine first 6 ingredients in large saucepan. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Add pears and bring syrup to boil, turning pears occasionally. Reduce heat to medium-low, cover, and simmer until pears are tender, about 20 minutes. Chill pears uncovered in syrup until cold, at least 3 hours. DO AHEAD Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and keep chilled.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour 9x5x3-inch metal loaf pan. Whisk flour and cornmeal in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Gradually beat in sugar, then salt. Drizzle in beaten eggs by tablespoonfuls, beating constantly, then beat in vanilla. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions, beating just to blend after each addition. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until brown on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Cool cake in pan 15 minutes. Turn cake out onto rack and cool completely. DO AHEAD Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap in foil and store at room temperature.
Bring 1 cup sugar and 1/2 cup water to simmer in medium saucepan over medium-high heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Add rosemary sprigs. Simmer until syrup reduces slightly, swirling pan occasionally, about 5 minutes. Using tongs, transfer rosemary sprigs to rack and drain. Cover and reserve rosemary syrup.
Pour baker's sugar into shallow bowl. Add drained rosemary sprigs to sugar, 1 at a time, turning to coat thickly. Place on paper towels. Dry at least 1 hour. DO AHEAD Can be made 1 day ahead. Let sprigs and syrup stand at room temperature.
Cut dark ends off cake. Cut eight 1/2- to 3/4-inch-thick cake slices. Cut each slice diagonally in half. Arrange 2 halves on each plate. Drain pears. Stand 1 pear on each plate. Drizzle each dessert with reserved rosemary syrup and garnish with candied rosemary sprig. Serve, passing remaining syrup separately.

Five-Spice Shortbread 
2 teaspoons ground ginger
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon ground star anise
1/4 cup turbinado or other granulated sugar
1 chilled log of butter shortbread cookie dough

1. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. In a small bowl, combine the ginger, cinnamon, cardamom, cloves, star anise, and sugar.
2. Cut the chilled log into twenty 1/2-inch rounds. Dip one cut surface of each round into the spice mixture and arrange the rounds 2 inches apart on all sides on a parchment-lined or nonstick cookie sheet or sheets.
3. Bake until golden brown, 15 to 20 minutes. Remove the cookies with a spatula and cool on a wire rack.

Rum Cake with Rum Raisin Ice Cream and Island Fruit 
3 cups all purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 3/4 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
5 large eggs
1 cup water
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup heavy whipping cream
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
3 tablespoons dark rum
2 tablespoons dark corn syrup
3/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
Rum raisin ice cream
4 cups chopped tropical fruit (such as pineapple, mango, papaya, and guava)
Toasted chopped pecans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 3-inch-high sides. Whisk flour and baking powder in medium bowl. Beat butter, sugar, and salt in large bowl until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix 1 cup water and vanilla extract in measuring cup. Fold flour mixture into butter mixture in 3 additions alternately with water mixture in 2 additions. Transfer batter to prepared springform pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Cool completely in pan on rack. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)
Combine first 7 ingredients in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves, about 3 minutes. Increase heat to medium-high. Boil without stirring until sauce is reduced to 1 1/2 cups, about 5 minutes. Cool slightly. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Let stand at room temperature. Rewarm slightly before continuing.)
Remove sides from cake pan. Slice cake. Place 1 wedge on each plate. Place scoop of ice cream alongside. Spoon chopped tropical fruit alongside. Drizzle cake with sauce. Sprinkle with chopped pecans and serve.

Deep Dark Chocolate Cheesecake 
24 chocolate wafer cookies (from one 9-ounce package)
1 tablespoon sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) butter, melted
1 9.7-ounce bar Scharffen Berger 70% Cocoa Bittersweet Chocolate,* chopped
4 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (preferably Scharffen Berger)
4 large eggs
3/4 cup whipping cream
6 ounces Scharffen Berger 70% Cocoa Bittersweet Chocolate,* chopped
1 tablespoon sugar
Bittersweet chocolate curls
*If unavailable, substitute another high-quality bittersweet chocolate.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 3-inch-high sides. Blend cookies in processor until finely ground; blend in sugar. Add melted butter and process until well blended. Press crumbs evenly onto bottom (not sides) of prepared pan. Bake just until set, about 5 minutes. Cool while preparing filling. Maintain oven temperature.
Stir chopped chocolate in metal bowl set over saucepan of simmering water until melted and smooth. Remove bowl from over water; cool chocolate until lukewarm but still pourable. Blend cream cheese, sugar, and cocoa powder in processor until smooth. Blend in eggs 1 at a time. Mix in lukewarm chocolate. Pour filling over crust; smooth top. Bake until center is just set and just appears dry, about 1 hour. Cool 5 minutes. Run knife around sides of cake to loosen. Chill overnight.
Stir cream, 6 ounces chocolate, and sugar in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until smooth. Cool slightly. Pour over center of cheesecake, spreading to within 1/2 inch of edge and filling any cracks. Chill until topping is set, about 1 hour. Do ahead: Can be made 3 days ahead. Cover with foil and keep refrigerated.
Release pan sides. Transfer cheesecake to platter. Top with chocolate curls. Let stand 2 hours at room temperature before serving.

Cherry-Almond Clafouti 
1/2 cup whole almonds (about 2 ounces)
1 1/4 cups whole milk
1 tablespoon plus 1/2 cup sugar
8 ounces dark sweet cherries, pitted, halved (about 2 cups)
3 large eggs, room temperature
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
Pinch of salt
1/4 cup all purpose flour
Powdered sugar

Blend almonds in processor until ground but not pasty. Transfer to small saucepan; add milk and bring to simmer. Remove from heat; let steep 30 minutes. Pour through fine strainer, pressing on solids to extract as much liquid as possible. Discard solids in strainer.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter 10-inch-diameter glass pie dish; sprinkle with 1 tablespoon sugar. Scatter cherries evenly over bottom of dish.
Using electric mixer, beat eggs, almond extract, salt, and remaining 1/2 cup sugar in medium bowl until well blended. Add strained almond milk and beat to blend. Sift flour into egg mixture and beat until smooth. Pour mixture over cherries. Bake until set and knife inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool completely.
Can be made 6 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature. Lightly dust clafouti with powdered sugar and serve.

Red Velvet Cupcakes with Coconut and Cream Cheese Frosting 
1 3/4 cups self-rising flour
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, divided
2 large eggs
1 tablespoon red food coloring
2 teaspoons vanilla extract, divided
1 cup buttermilk, divided
1 teaspoon distilled white vinegar
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
2 cups sweetened flaked coconut (about 6 ounces), divided

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 18 muffin cups with paper liners. Sift flour and cocoa into small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat 1 1/2 cups sugar and 3/4 cup butter in large bowl until smooth. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then red food coloring and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix in dry ingredients in 3 additions alternately with 2/3 cup buttermilk in 2 additions. Make well in center; pour in remaining 1/3 cup buttermilk, vinegar, and baking soda. When bubbles form, stir into batter.
Divide batter equally among paper liners. Bake cupcakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool 10 minutes; transfer to rack and cool completely.
Beat cream cheese, 1/4 cup butter, and remaining 1 teaspoon vanilla in medium bowl until smooth. Beat in powdered sugar; fold in 1 cup flaked coconut. Spread frosting on cupcakes, leaving 1/2-inch plain border; sprinkle with remaining 1 cup coconut.

Blackberry Brown-Sugar Cake 
1 lb blackberries (about 3 1/2 cups)
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
2/3 cup walnuts (2 oz)
1 cup granulated sugar
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened, plus additional for greasing pans
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup well-shaken buttermilk
1 teaspoon finely grated fresh orange zest
2 tablespoons fresh orange juice
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
1 cup packed light brown sugar
2 large eggs
3 large egg whites at room temperature
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup packed dark brown sugar
1/3 cup water
3 sticks (1 1/2 cups) unsalted butter, cut into pieces and softened
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
1 lb blackberries (about 3 1/2 cups)
a heavy-duty stand mixer with whisk and paddle attachments; 3 (8-inch) round cake pans; 3 cooling racks; a candy thermometer

Mash blackberries with sugar using a potato masher or fork in a 3- to 4-quart heavy saucepan. Cook over moderately high heat, stirring occasionally, until slightly thickened, about 7 minutes. Stir in lemon juice, then force through a sieve into a bowl, discarding seeds. Chill jam, its surface covered with wax paper, until softly set, at least 15 minutes.
Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Pulse walnuts with 1/2 cup granulated sugar in a food processor until finely ground.
Generously butter cake pans and put a rounded 1/3 cup nut mixture into each pan. Tilt each pan to coat bottom and sides with nut mixture, letting excess remain in bottom of pan.
Sift together flour, baking soda, and salt in a bowl. Stir together buttermilk, orange zest and juice, and vanilla in a small bowl.
Beat together butter (2 sticks), brown sugar, and remaining 1/2 cup granulated sugar in bowl of mixer with paddle attachment at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Reduce speed to low and add flour and buttermilk mixtures alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing just until batter is smooth. Divide batter among cake pans.
Bake, switching position of pans halfway through baking, until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in centers of cakes comes out clean and edges begin to pull away from sides of pans, about 30 minutes. Cool in pans on racks 15 minutes, then run a thin knife around edge of each pan. Invert racks over pans, then flip cakes onto racks to cool completely, about 1 hour.
Put egg whites and salt in cleaned bowl of mixer.
Bring brown sugar and water to a boil in a 1-quart heavy saucepan over moderately high heat, stirring until sugar is dissolved, and washing down side of pan occasionally with a pastry brush dipped in water. When sugar syrup reaches a boil, start beating egg whites with whisk attachment at medium-high speed until whites just hold soft peaks. (Do not beat again until sugar syrup is ready.)
Meanwhile, put thermometer into sugar syrup and continue boiling until syrup reaches 238 to 242 degrees F (soft ball stage). Immediately remove from heat and, with mixer at high speed, slowly pour hot syrup down side of bowl into egg whites (avoid beaters), beating constantly.
Continue to beat meringue, scraping down bowl once or twice with a rubber spatula, until meringue is cool to the touch, about 10 minutes. (It is important that meringue is properly cooled before proceeding.)
With mixer at medium speed, gradually add butter to meringue 1 piece at a time, beating well after each addition and until incorporated. (If meringue is too warm and buttercream looks soupy after some of butter is added, briefly chill bottom of bowl in a large bowl filled with ice water for a few seconds before continuing to beat in remaining butter.) Continue beating until buttercream is smooth. (Mixture may look curdled before all of butter is added, but will come back together as beating continues.) Add vanilla and beat 1 minute more.
Put 1 cake layer, nut side up, on a cake plate or platter. Spread 1 1/2 cups buttercream on top but not side, then top with another cake layer, nut side up. Spread top with 1 1/2 cups buttercream, then top with remaining layer, nut side up.
Gently toss whole blackberries with jam in a large bowl. Arrange blackberries, stemmed sides down, on top of cake.

Cornmeal Thumbprint Cookies with Summer Strawberry Jam 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 teaspoon (packed) finely grated lemon peel
1 large egg, separated
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup yellow cornmeal
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sugar
Summer Strawberry Jam

Using electric mixer, beat butter, brown sugar, and lemon peel in large bowl until fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in egg yolk, lemon juice, and vanilla.
Whisk flour, cornmeal, cinnamon, and salt in another bowl to blend. Beat dry ingredients into butter mixture in 2 additions. Gather dough into ball, wrap tightly in plastic; chill for at least 30 minutes and up to 2 days.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line large rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Whisk egg white in small bowl until frothy. Place 1/2 cup sugar in another small bowl. Form dough into 11/2-inch balls. Roll each in egg white, then drop into sugar, tossing to coat. Place balls on prepared sheet, spacing 2 inches apart. Using thumb, make deep indentation in center of each (if edges crack, push together to smooth).
Bake cookies 12 minutes. Remove from oven. Using wet thumb, immediately press indentation of each cookie again to reshape. Bake cookies until lightly browned and set at edges, about 10 minutes longer. Remove from oven and immediately press indentation of each cookie again. Cool cookies completely on sheet.
Spoon jam into thumbprint of each cookie. Arrange on platter.

Pear Küchen 
1/3 cup warm milk (105-115 degrees F) 1/3 cup plus 1 teaspoon sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons active dry yeast (from a 1/4-oz package)
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour, plus additional for dusting
1 whole large egg
1 large egg yolk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 teaspoon salt
7 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces and softened
3 firm-ripe Bosc pears (about 1 1/2 lb total)
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1/4 cup packed dark brown sugar
2 tablespoons plain fine dry bread crumbs
3 tablespoons hazelnuts, toasted and chopped
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
A stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment; a 9- to 9 1/2-inch (24-cm) springform pan

Stir together milk and 1 teaspoon granulated sugar in bowl of mixer. Sprinkle yeast over mixture and let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes. (If yeast doesn't foam, discard and start over with new yeast.)
Add 1/4 cup flour, beating at medium speed until combined. Add whole egg, yolk, vanilla, salt, and remaining 1/3 cup sugar and beat until combined. Reduce speed to low and gradually mix in 1 1/4 cups remaining flour. Increase speed to medium and add butter, then continue beating, stopping and scraping down side of bowl once or twice, until dough is shiny and forms strands from paddle to bowl, about 3 minutes. (Dough will be very soft and sticky.)
Transfer dough to a lightly oiled bowl and cover with plastic wrap. Let rise in a warm, draft-free place until doubled in bulk, about 1 1/2 hours.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Peel pears, cut lengthwise into eighths, and core. Toss pears with melted butter and 2 tablespoons brown sugar in a 13- by 9-inch glass or ceramic baking dish and arrange in 1 layer.
Roast pears, gently turning and stirring occasionally, until just tender and lightly caramelized, about 45 minutes. Transfer pears to a plate with a slotted spatula. Stir bread crumbs into baking dish, scraping up all brown bits and butter, then transfer to a bowl. Stir hazelnuts, cinnamon, and remaining 2 tablespoons brown sugar into bread crumbs.
Reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees F.
Transfer dough to springform pan and spread evenly with a rubber spatula to cover bottom.
Sprinkle half of crumb mixture over dough, leaving a 1-inch border. Gently toss roasted pears with remaining crumb mixture and scatter pears over dough. Let rise, covered with plastic wrap, in a warm draft-free place, 30 minutes.
Bake, uncovered, until firm to the touch and deep golden brown, about 40 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack, 20 minutes, then carefully remove side of pan. Cool to barely warm or room temperature.

Savory Coconut Tuiles 
1/2 cup sweetened flaked coconut
3/4 cup finely grated unsweetened coconut (dried)
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 large egg whites, lightly beaten
a large nonstick bakeware liner, such as Silpat, or parchment paper; an offset metal spatula

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Spread sweetened flaked coconut evenly in a shallow baking pan and toast in oven, stirring occasionally, until golden, 8 to 10 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack.
Reduce oven temperature to 250 degrees F. Line a large baking sheet with nonstick liner.
Stir together toasted coconut, unsweetened coconut, salt, and egg whites in a bowl until combined.
Drop mounds (about 1 tablespoon per mound) of mixture about 3 inches apart onto baking sheet and pat each mound with moistened fingertips into a 2 1/2-inch round. Bake until golden, about 30 minutes. Cool on sheet on rack until crisp, about 2 minutes.
Gently loosen tuiles, 1 at a time, with offset spatula and transfer to rack to cool completely, about 10 minutes more.

Oatmeal, Chocolate Chip, and Pecan Cookies 
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, at room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
1 cup light brown sugar, firmly packed
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 large eggs
1 1/2 cups flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/8 teaspoon ground clove
1 cup quick-cooking oats
2 cups chopped pecans
2 teaspoons freshly grated orange zest
12 ounces semisweet chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line a large cookie sheet with parchment or a Silpat (rubber nonstick baking mat). Using an electric mixer, beat the butter in a bowl until light and fluffy. Add both sugars, salt, and vanilla, and beat until well mixed, about 3 minutes. Stir in eggs, one at a time. Sift together the flour, baking soda, cinnamon, nutmeg, and clove in a separate bowl. Add half of the flour mixture to the butter with the mixer on low speed. Once the flour has been incorporated, add the second half. Stir in the oats, pecans, orange zest, and chocolate chips. Drop the dough, by the tablespoon, onto the cookie sheet and bake for 10-12 minutes or until golden. Remove from the oven and cool the cookies on a rack. Store at room temperature in a cookie jar or other airtight container.

Sour Cherry Chocolate Mousse Cake 
3/4 cup sour cherry jam or preserves
1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar
2 tablespoons calvados (or other type of brandy)
2 tablespoons hazelnuts, toasted and skins rubbed off
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2 tablespoons unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon unflavored gelatin (from a 1/4-oz envelope)
3 tablespoons cold water
1/2 cup chocolate hazelnut spread such as Nutella (5 oz)
1/2 cup mascarpone (1/4 lb)
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
3 tablespoons sugar
1/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon heavy cream
3 1/2 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
an 8-inch (20-cm) springform pan; parchment paper

In a small saucepan stir together the cherry jam, balsamic vinegar, and calvados. Simmer over low heat until the liquid reduces and thickens, about 10 minutes. Remove from heat and let stand until cooled completely.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Invert bottom of springform pan (to make it easier to slide shortbread base off bottom), then lock on side of pan and line bottom with a round of parchment paper.
Pulse hazelnuts with sugar in a food processor until nuts are finely chopped. Add flour, butter, cocoa, and salt and pulse just until a dough forms.
Press dough evenly onto bottom of springform pan with your fingers. Prick all over with a fork, then bake until just dry to the touch, about 18 to 20 minutes. Transfer base in pan to a rack to cool completely, about 30 minutes. Remove side of pan and carefully slide out parchment from under shortbread, then reattach side of pan around shortbread base.
Sprinkle gelatin over water in a 1- to 1 1/2-quart heavy saucepan and let stand until softened, about 5 minutes. Heat gelatin mixture over low heat, stirring, just until gelatin is melted, about 2 minutes. Whisk in chocolate hazelnut spread until combined and remove from heat.
Whisk together mascarpone and chocolate hazelnut mixture in a large bowl. Beat together cream, cocoa powder, and sugar in another large bowl with an electric mixer at low speed until just combined, then increase speed to high and beat until cream just holds soft peaks. Whisk one third of whipped cream into mascarpone mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining whipped cream until well combined.
Use a spoon or rubber spatula to spread the jam mixture evenly on top of shortbread, then spoon the mousse layer on top of the jam, gently smoothing top. Chill, covered, at least 3 hours.
Bring cream to a simmer in a small heavy saucepan and remove from heat. Add chocolate and let stand 1 minute, then gently whisk until completely melted and smooth. Transfer ganache to a small bowl and cool, stirring occasionally, until slightly thickened but still pourable, about 20 minutes.
Run a warm thin knife around inside of springform pan, then remove side. Slide cake off bottom of pan and transfer to a serving plate. Pour ganache onto top of cake and spread, allowing excess ganache to drip down sides.

Summer Fruit and Meringue Trifle 
4 large egg yolks
1/3 cup sugar
2 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 1/3 cups whole milk
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
1 1/3 cups chilled whipping cream
1 5-ounce container mini vanilla meringue cookies
1 pound ripe yellow nectarines, halved, pitted, cut into 1/2-inch-thick slices
1 cup peach preserves, divided
1 pound ripe yellow peaches, halved, pitted, cut into 1/2-inch-thick slices
3 5.6-ounce containers boysenberries or blackberries, plus additional for garnish
1/2 cup boysenberry preserves

Using electric mixer, beat yolks in medium bowl to blend. Add sugar and beat on high speed until thick and pale yellow, about 3 minutes. Reduce speed to low; beat in cornstarch.
Place milk in heavy medium saucepan. Scrape seeds from vanilla bean into milk; add bean. Bring mixture to boil. Gradually whisk hot milk into yolk mixture. Return mixture to same pan. Cook over medium heat until very thick and center of mixture is bubbling, whisking constantly, about 2 minutes. Remove pastry cream from heat. Whisk 1 minute. Strain into large bowl. Place sheet of plastic wrap directly onto surface. Chill until cold, at least 3 hours. (Pastry cream can be made 1 day ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
Whip cream in large bowl until stiff peaks form. Whisk pastry cream to loosen. Fold 1 cup whipped cream into pastry cream. Fold in remaining whipped cream. Cover and refrigerate while preparing fruit.
Place meringues in large resealable plastic bag and seal. Coarsely crush meringues with mallet, leaving some large pieces (there should be about 6 cups). Place nectarines in another large bowl. Fold 1/2 cup peach preserves into nectarines. Place peaches in another large bowl. Fold remaining 1/2 cup peach preserves into peaches. Place 3 containers boysenberries in another large bowl; fold in boysenberry preserves. Spread 2 cups crushed meringues over bottom of 14-cup trifle dish. Spoon nectarines over meringues. Spread 13/4 cups pastry cream over fruit. Cover fruit with 2 cups crushed meringues. Spoon boysenberry mixture over meringues. Spread 13/4 cups pastry cream over fruit. Cover fruit with 2 cups crushed meringues. Spoon peach mixture over meringues. Place remaining cream in large dollop in center of trifle. Decorate top with additional berries. Refrigerate at least 3 hours and up to 5 hours.

Brain Cupcakes 
Pink or white paper cupcake liners
1 recipe batter for Red Velvet Cupcakes
1 recipe Vanilla Butter Cream Frosting
Red and black food coloring
Pastry bag and large round tip

1. Line cupcake tins with the liners. Fill the cupcake liners two-thirds full with the batter and bake the cupcakes as directed in the recipe .
2. Mix a drop of red and black food coloring into the frosting to make it a pinkish gray brain color.
3. Using the pastry bag, pipe the frosting in a squiggly pile on half of each cupcake top (brains have two hemispheres, you know). Now pipe the frosting in a squiggly pile on the other half of the cupcake top.

Applesauce Spice Cake 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup turbinado sugar such as Sugar in the Raw
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2 teaspoons light rum
1 large egg
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon unsweetened applesauce
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 cup turbinado sugar
6 tablespoons canned evaporated milk
1 teaspoon light rum
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup confectioners sugar
a 10-inch springform pan (25 cm)

Place oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter pan and set aside.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, spices, and salt in a bowl.
Beat together sugar, butter, and rum with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until combined well, then add egg and beat until pale and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes with a stand mixer or 5 to 6 minutes with a handheld. Reduce speed to low and add dry ingredients, mixing until combined well. Add applesauce and mix until combined well.
Spread batter evenly in springform pan and bake until a wooden pick or skewer comes out clean, 30 to 35 minutes.
Cool cake in pan on a rack 10 minutes, then remove side of pan and cool completely.
Melt 2 tablespoons butter in a 1 1/2- to 2-quart heavy saucepan, then add sugar and evaporated milk and simmer, stirring constantly until sugar is dissolved, about 4 minutes.
Remove from heat and whisk in rum, vanilla, salt, and remaining tablespoon butter, then whisk in confectioners sugar 1 tablespoon at a time. Cool to warm, about 20 minutes, then spread over cooled cake.

Molasses Jumbos with Ginger Filling 
2/3 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1/2 cup light molasses
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
1 extra-large egg
1 tablespoon cider vinegar
2 teaspoons vanilla
3 cups sifted all purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
Melted butter
All purpose flour
2 1/2 cups powdered sugar
7 tablespoons chopped crystallized ginger (3 ounces)
4 tablespoons ginger marmalade
4 tablespoons well-chilled unsalted butter, cut into 4 pieces

Stir sugar, molasses and butter in heavy 2- to 3-quart saucepan over low heat until butter melts. Cool mixture to lukewarm.
Stir egg, vinegar and vanilla into molasses mixture. Combine 3 cups flour and next 6 ingredients and gradually stir into molasses mixture. Cover and chill 1 1/2 hours to firm. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead.)
Invert baking sheets and cover undersides with foil. Brush with melted butter and dust with flour, shaking off excess. Form dough into 1-inch balls. Arrange on foil, spacing 3 inches apart. Flatten each cookie into 3-inch round (saucepan bottom wrapped in plastic works well.) Chill 1 1/2 hours.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Bake cookies until honey colored, about 14 minutes. Slide foil onto work surface. Gently press each cookie with spatula to flatten. Cool. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)
Blend 1 1/4 cups sugar and 3 1/2 tablespoons ginger in processor until ginger is minced, stopping occasionally to scrape down sides of work bowl, about 2 minutes. Add 2 tablespoons marmalade and 2 tablespoons butter. Process until thick and well blended, about 1 1/2 minutes. Transfer mixture to small bowl. Repeat with remaining sugar, ginger, marmalade and butter. Add to bowl. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead and refrigerated. Bring to room temperature before continuing.)
Spread 1 tablespoon filling on bottom of cookie, smoothing to edges. Press bottom of another cookie firmly onto filling. Repeat with remaining cookies. (Can be prepared 6 hours ahead. Store uncovered to retain crispness.)

Black-Bottom Peanut Butter Mousse Pie 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
7 whole graham crackers, coarsely broken
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 tablespoons sugar, divided
1 1/3 cups bittersweet or semisweet chocolate chips (about 8 ounces)
2/3 cup plus 1 3/4 cups chilled whipping cream, divided
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
2 teaspoons vanilla extract, divided
6 ounces (1 cup) peanut butter chips
2 tablespoons creamy peanut butter (do not use old-fashioned style or freshly ground)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 9-inch-diameter glass pie dish with nonstick spray. Blend graham crackers, melted butter, and 2 tablespoons sugar in processor until moist clumps form. Press crumb mixture over bottom and up sides of prepared pie dish. Bake crust until lightly browned, about 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, combine chocolate chips, 2/3 cup cream, corn syrup, and 1 teaspoon vanilla in microwave-safe bowl. Microwave on medium heat until chocolate softens, about 3 minutes. Whisk until melted and smooth. Spread chocolate mixture over bottom of crust. Freeze 10 minutes.
Microwave peanut butter chips and 3/4 cup cream in large microwave-safe bowl on medium heat at 15-second intervals just until chips soften, stirring often. Whisk in peanut butter and 1 teaspoon vanilla. Cool to barely lukewarm. Beat remaining 1 cup cream and 2 tablespoons sugar in medium bowl until very thick but not yet holding peaks; fold into peanut butter mixture in 3 additions. Spoon mousse over chocolate layer. Chill at least 1 hour and up to 1 day.

Orange Layer Cake with Buttercream Frosting and Berries 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
4 1/2 cups cake flour
4 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons (2 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups sugar, divided
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups whole milk
9 large egg whites
1 cup sugar
1 cup water
1 tablespoon orange-flower water*
12 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
5 1/2 cups powdered sugar, sifted
1/2 teaspoon orange-flower water
1/4 cup orange marmalade
1 12-ounce container fresh strawberries
1 6-ounce container fresh raspberries
1 4.4-ounce container fresh blueberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray bottom and sides of two 10-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Line bottoms with parchment paper rounds; spray parchment. Dust pans with flour, tapping out any excess. Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and 1 1/2 cups sugar in large bowl until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Beat in vanilla. Add flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with milk in 2 additions, beating until well blended between additions. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in another large bowl until foamy. With mixer running, gradually add remaining 1/2 cup sugar. Beat egg white mixture until stiff glossy peaks form, about 3 minutes. Gently fold egg white mixture into batter in 3 additions. Divide batter between prepared pans; smooth tops.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on rack 10 minutes. Invert cakes onto rack; remove parchment paper, turn cakes over, and cool completely.
Bring sugar and 1 cup water to boil in heavy small saucepan, stirring until sugar dissolves. Reduce heat to medium and simmer until reduced to about 1 1/2 cups, about 5 minutes. Stir in orange-flower water. Chill until cold, about 2 hours.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until smooth. Add powdered sugar 1 cup at a time, beating well. Add orange-flower water; beat until smooth.
Place 1 cup orange-flower buttercream in medium bowl; mix in orange marmalade. Set marmalade buttercream aside to use as filling.
Hull and cut half of strawberries lengthwise into 1/2-inch wedges. Trim cake tops to flatten. Place 1 cake on plate, cut side up. Brush 1/2 of orange-flower syrup (about 3/4 cup) over top of cake. Place scant 1/2 cup plain orange-flower buttercream into pastry bag fitted with 1/3-inch tip. Pipe 1/3-inch line of buttercream around edge of cake. Spoon marmalade buttercream into center, spreading just to line. Gently press sliced strawberries, half of raspberries, and half of blueberries into filling, leaving 1/2-inch border (chill remaining berries for garnish). Top with second layer; brush top with remaining syrup. Frost top and sides with remaining plain orange-flower buttercream. Chill at least 2 hours.
Remove cake from refrigerator 1 hour before serving. Hull and cut remaining strawberries lengthwise into 1/2-inch-thick wedges. Sprinkle sliced strawberries and remaining raspberries and blueberries over cake.
*A flavoring extract; available in the liquor or baking section of some supermarkets or at liquor stores.

Strawberry Shortcakes with Brown Sugar Biscuits and White Chocolate Cream 
2 ounces high-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), chopped
1 tablespoon water
1/2 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
2 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream, divided
3 tablespoons sugar
3 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
4 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
9 tablespoons (1 stick plus 1 tablespoon) unsalted butter, cut into 1/4-inch cubes, chilled
1 cup whipping cream, plus additional for brushing biscuits
2 tablespoons raw sugar*
4 cups halved hulled strawberries (about 2 to 2 1/2 pounds)
1/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon finely grated lemon peel
1 tablespoon chopped fresh mint or 2 teaspoons dried lavender blossoms**

Place white chocolate in medium bowl. Place 1 tablespoon water in very small bowl. Sprinkle gelatin over; let stand until gelatin softens, about 15 minutes. Bring 1/2 cup cream and 3 tablespoons sugar to simmer in small saucepan, stirring until sugar dissolves. Remove from heat; add gelatin and stir until dissolved. Pour gelatin mixture over white chocolate, whisking until melted and smooth. Cool to room temperature.
Beat remaining 2 cups cream in large bowl until peaks form. Fold 1/2 cup cream into white chocolate mixture to lighten. Fold chocolate mixture into remaining cream in bowl. Refrigerate until cold, at least 1 hour and up to 3 hours.
Combine flour, brown sugar, baking powder, and salt in large bowl; whisk to blend. Add butter. Using fingertips, rub in until coarse meal forms. Gradually add 1 cup cream, tossing until moist clumps form. Gather dough into ball; shape into 8 1/2-inch round on parchment or foil. Chill 15 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Cut dough into eight 3-inch rounds, gathering scraps and reshaping as needed. Place rounds on prepared sheet, spacing 2 inches apart. Brush tops with cream and sprinkle with raw sugar. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool completely. (Can be made 2 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature. If desired, rewarm in 350 degrees F oven 5 minutes before using.)
Combine strawberries, 1/4 cup sugar, lemon juice, lemon peel, and mint or lavender in medium bowl; toss to blend. Let stand at room temperature until juices form, at least 10 minutes, or refrigerate until ready to use, up to 2 hours.
Cut biscuits in half horizontally. Place 1 bottom on each of 8 plates and mound strawberries with syrup on each, dividing equally. Cover with white chocolate cream and biscuit tops.
*Also called turbinado or demerara sugar; available at most supermarkets and natural foods stores.
**Also called culinary lavender buds; available at many health foods stores and from surfasonline.com.

Lemon Curd Marbled Cheesecake 
1 teaspoon finely grated fresh lemon zest
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice
1/2 cup sugar
3 large eggs
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1 1/3 cups finely ground graham cracker crumbs (5 oz)
1/3 cup sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
3 (8-oz) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup sugar
3 large eggs
3/4 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla
Accompaniment: blueberries
a 9- to 91/2-inch (24-cm) springform pan

Whisk together zest, juice, sugar, and eggs in a 2-quart heavy saucepan. Add butter and cook over moderately low heat, whisking frequently, until curd is thick enough to hold marks of whisk and first bubbles appear on surface, about 6 minutes.
Force lemon curd through a fine-mesh sieve into a wide shallow dish, scraping bottom of sieve, then cover surface with wax paper. Cool completely, stirring occasionally, about 30 minutes.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Invert bottom of springform pan (to make it easier to slide cake off bottom), then lock on side. 3Stir together crust ingredients in a bowl, then press onto bottom and 1 inch up side of springform pan. Place springform pan in a shallow baking pan and bake 10 minutes, then cool crust completely in springform pan on a rack.
Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F.
Beat together cream cheese and sugar in a bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until smooth, 1 to 2 minutes. Reduce speed to low and add eggs 1 at a time, beating until incorporated. Beat in sour cream and vanilla until combined.
Pour two thirds of cream cheese filling into crust, then spoon half of lemon curd over filling and swirl curd into filling with a small knife. (Avoid touching crust with knife to prevent crumbs getting into filling.) Repeat with remaining filling and curd.
Bake cheesecake until set 1 1/2 inches from edge but center trembles when pan is gently shaken, about 45 minutes. (Center of cake will appear very loose but will continue to set as it cools.) Transfer springform pan to a rack and immediately run a knife around top edge of cake to loosen. Cool completely, about 2 hours, then chill, uncovered, at least 4 hours. Remove side of springform pan before serving.

Black and Tans 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup well-shaken buttermilk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
7 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg
1/4 cup creamy peanut butter
2 1/2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar, sifted
1/4 cup half and half
1/4 cup unsweetened Dutch process cocoa such as Periginotti
2 1/2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar, sifted
1/4 cup half and half
a small offset spatula

Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 large baking sheets.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt in a bowl. Stir together buttermilk and vanilla in a cup. Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes, then add egg, beating until combined well. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture and buttermilk mixture alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture, and mixing just until smooth.
Drop rounded teaspoons of batter 1 inch apart onto baking sheets. Bake, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until tops are puffed, edges are pale golden, and cookies spring back when touched, 6 to 8 minutes total. Transfer to a rack to cool.
Mix peanut butter and butter together with a hand mixer. Gradually blend in the sugar and half and half. Blend until fluffy and light. Can be prepared a day or two in advance, tightly wrapped, and refrigerated. Allow to come to room temperature before using.
Mix cocoa and butter together with a hand mixer. Gradually blend in the sugar and half and half. Blend until fluffy and light. Can be prepared a day or two in advance, tightly wrapped, and refrigerated. Allow to come to room temperature before using.
With offset spatula, spread peanut butter frosting over half of flat side of each cookie. Starting with cookies you iced first, spread chocolate frosting over other half.

Pound Cake Squares with Berries 
2 boxes pound cake mix
6 tablespoons butter, melted
3 cups whipping cream
1 cup sugar
2 cups mixed berries (we used strawberries, raspberries, and blueberries)

Bake each pound cake in a loaf pan according to package directions. Allow to cool. Using a large serrated knife, trim crust off all sides of cake to make an even rectangle. Slice the rectangle in half lengthwise, then cut each piece in half lengthwise. Cut each long section crosswise three times to make 16 small squares. Repeat with second loaf.
Using a small serrated knife, cut a square from the center of each cube, leaving a 1/2-inch wall around the edges. Remove the cut sections carefully, making sure to leave enough cake on the bottom to hold the filling.
Place the squares on an unlined baking sheet. Brush the upper edges of the cake squares with the melted butter using a pastry brush. Place under broiler for a few minutes until lightly toasted, making sure to watch closely — the squares brown quickly. Remove from oven and let cool.
These can be made up to 2 days ahead. If storing, pound cake squares can be transferred to airtight containers or placed closely together on a baking sheet and covered with plastic wrap, and stored in the refrigerator.
Place the whipping cream in the bowl of an electric mixer and whip until soft peaks form. Add the sugar slowly and whip until slightly stiff. Place a spoonful of whipped cream on each square, topped with sliced and whole berries, and serve.

Cider Spice Cake 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened, plus additional for greasing
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour plus additional for dusting
2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
2/3 cup apple cider (not filtered)
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1 cup packed light brown sugar
3 large eggs at room temperature for 30 minutes
3/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1/8 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup apple cider (not filtered)
2 1/2 sticks (1 1/4 cups) unsalted butter, softened

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 (8- by 2-inch) round cake pans and dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Whisk together flour (1 1/2 cups), baking powder, cinnamon, salt, nutmeg, cloves, and allspice in a medium bowl.
Combine apple cider and lemon juice in a small measuring cup.
Beat butter in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until light and fluffy, then add brown sugar and beat until combined. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition (mixture will look curdled).
Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture and cider mixture alternately in 3 batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing until just combined.
Divide batter between cake pans (batter will form a thin layer) and rap pans on work surface once to release any large air bubbles.
Bake cake layers until they begin to pull away from sides of pans and a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center of each cake layer comes out clean, 25 to 30 minutes.
Cool cake layers in pans on racks 5 minutes, then run a thin knife around edge of each layer and invert layers onto racks. Cool completely, at least 1 hour.
Whisk together sugar, cornstarch, and salt in a 2-quart heavy saucepan. Whisk in cider, then bring to a boil over moderate heat, whisking constantly, and boil, whisking constantly, 1 minute (mixture will be very thick). Transfer to a metal bowl and set in a larger bowl of ice and cold water, then stir occasionally until cool, about 30 minutes.
Beat butter in a large bowl with cleaned beaters at medium-high speed until light and fluffy, then add one third of cider mixture and beat until incorporated. Add remaining cider mixture and continue beating until smooth.
When cakes are cool, arrange 1 layer flat side up on a flat serving plate or cake stand and spread top with 3/4 cup buttercream. Top with remaining cake layer flat side up. Frost top and side of cake with remaining buttercream. Chill 2 hours before serving (to firm up buttercream).

Maple Stars 
2 3/4 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter,room temperature
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 large egg
2 teaspoons maple extract
2 1/4 cups powdered sugar
3 tablespoons whole milk
Bright white sparkling sugar crystals* or other white sprinkles

Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter and both sugars in large bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in egg and maple extract. Beat in flour mixture until just blended. Divide dough in half. Flatten each half into disk; wrap disks separately in plastic and chill until firm enough to roll, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line baking sheets with parchment paper. Roll out 1 dough disk on lightly floured work surface to 11-inch round, about 1/3 inch thick. Using 2-inch star-shaped cookie cutter dipped into flour, cut out cookies from dough. Place cookies on prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Reroll dough scraps on lightly floured surface and cut out additional cookies. Repeat with remaining dough disk.
Bake cookies until lightly browned, about 12 minutes. Cool cookies on baking sheets 5 minutes, then transfer to racks and cool completely.
Stir powdered sugar and milk in medium bowl until smooth (icing will be thick). Using small offset spatula or butter knife, spread icing over top of 1 cookie, then sprinkle top with sugar crystals. Repeat with remaining cookies, icing, and sugar crystals. Let cookies stand at room temperature until icing is dry and firm, at least 1 hour. (Can be made ahead. Store in single layer in airtight container at room temperature up to 5 days or freeze up to 2 weeks.)
*Bright white sparkling sugar crystals are available at some supermarkets, cake and candy supply stores, and online at lacuisineus.com.

Individual Walnut Cake with Yogurt 
1/3 cup walnuts (1 ounce)
1 1/2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1/2 teaspoon finely grated fresh lemon zest
1 large egg
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 lemon
3 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons water
2 teaspoons mild honey
Accompaniment: whole-milk yogurt (preferably Greek)
a 6- to 8-ounce gratin dish or ramekin

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Pulse nuts in a food processor until coarsely chopped and reserve 1 1/2 tablespoons in a small bowl. Add sugar and a pinch of salt to nuts in processor and pulse until nuts are finely chopped. Add butter and zest and process until smooth, then add egg and process until blended, scraping down side of bowl. Add flour and pulse just until incorporated, 2 or 3 times (do not overblend). Pour batter into ungreased dish and sprinkle with reserved nuts.
Bake until cake is browned around edge and puffed, and a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes. Transfer cake in dish to a rack.
Finely grate 1/4 teaspoon zest from lemon, then halve lemon and squeeze enough juice to measure 2 teaspoons.
Bring lemon juice, sugar, water, and honey to a boil in a very small saucepan, stirring until sugar is dissolved, then boil 1 minute. Stir in zest and cool to warm.
Run a thin knife around edge of cake to loosen and pour 3 tablespoons syrup over hot cake in dish, letting syrup run down sides and underneath cake. Cool cake at least 15 minutes. Transfer to a plate and serve with remaining syrup and yogurt.

Gingerbread Skeletons 
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup butter
1/2 cup molasses
1/4 cup water
2 1/2 cups flour, sifted
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon ginger
1/8 teaspoon allspice
Animal and gingerbread people cookie cutters
1 tube white decorating icing with small tip

1. In a large mixing bowl, cream the sugar and butter together. Add molasses and water.
2. In a separate bowl, mix the flour, salt, nutmeg, baking soda, ginger, and allspice. Gradually add the dry mixture to the wet and blend until the dough holds together.
3. Cover and chill for 2-3 hours.
4. Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F.
5. Roll out dough 1/4 inch thick on a lightly floured surface.
6. Cut into shapes with cookie cutters and transfer to cookie sheet.
7. Bake for 10-12 minutes. Remove from the oven and let cool on baking sheets or cooling racks.
8. Using the white decorating icing, decorate the cookies with  inchbones inch so that they resemble skeletons.

Lime Snowballs 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup cornstarch
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup powdered sugar
2 tablespoons fresh lime juice
1 teaspoon (packed) finely grated lime peel
1/2 teaspoon lime oil*
Additional powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Whisk flour and cornstarch in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter and 1/2 cup powdered sugar in large bowl until light and fluffy. Mix in lime juice, lime peel, and lime oil. Beat in flour mixture until smooth. Refrigerate dough until just firm, about 45 minutes.
Using scant 1 tablespoon for each, form dough into balls and place on prepared sheets, spacing 1 inch apart.
Bake cookies until pale golden on top and browned on bottom, about 23 minutes. Transfer baking sheets to racks; immediately sift generous amount of powdered sugar over cookies. Cool cookies completely on baking sheets. (Can be made ahead. Store airtight at room temperature up to 5 days or freeze up to 2 weeks. Dust with more powdered sugar before serving.)
*Available at chefshop.com (877-337-2491) and at Sur La Table stores (call 800-243-0852 for locations).

White Cupcakes 
3 cups all-purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2/3 cups unsalted butter, softened
1 3/4 cups sugar
2 eggs
1 1/4 cups whole milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Prepare cupcake tins as directed as directed in the recipe you are following.
2. Sift the flour, baking powder, and salt together in a medium bowl.
3. In a separate, larger bowl, cream the butter. Gradually add the sugar, creaming until light and fluffy.
4. Add the eggs one at a time, and beat well after each addition.
5. In a small bowl, combine the milk and vanilla.
6. To the butter mixture, add about one quarter of the flour mixture and mix well. Add about one quarter of the milk mixture and mix well. Continue alternating the flour mixture and milk mixture, beating after each addition until smooth.
7. Pour the batter into the cupcake tins. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, until the cake springs back when touched.
8. Remove from oven and let cool for about 10 minutes, then turn the cupcakes out of the tins and onto a rack to finish cooling completely.

Sugar Cookies 
Vegetable-oil cooking spray
1/2 cup sugar
2 tbsp butter, lightly browned
2 tbsp canola oil
1 large egg
1 1/2 tsp vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 tsp baking powder
1/4 tsp salt
4 cups (a 1-lb box) confectioners' sugar, sifted
1/2 cup light corn syrup
1 tsp lemon (or vanilla) extract

Cookies: Position a rack in the upper third of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with foil and coat lightly with cooking spray. In a mixing bowl, combine sugar, butter and oil, beating with an electric mixer until smooth. Add egg and vanilla; beat until creamy and light yellow. Mix together flour, baking powder, and salt and sift into sugar mixture; beat at low speed until just combined. Press the ball of dough into a disk; cover with plastic wrap. Place dough in freezer 10 minutes. Roll out dough to an even 1/4-inch thickness. Cut out cookies with 2- to 2 1/2-inch cookie cutters. Place cookies about 1/2 inch apart on prepared baking sheets. Bake cookies in upper third of oven, one sheet at a time, for 6 to 8 minutes or until slightly golden on the edges (do not overbake; cookies will appear soft when you remove them from oven). Use the tip of a knife or wooden skewer to make a hole on the top of each cookie to accommodate a ribbon or string. Cool on baking sheets for 10 minutes, then transfer to wire racks. Frost and decorate as desired.
Icing: Combine all the ingredients with 3 tbsp water in a bowl and whisk until smooth (the icing should be thick enough so it doesn't run off cookies). Tint with liquid food coloring if desired. Use a paintbrush or small knife to paint icing on cookies. Let cookies dry overnight. Thread with ribbon or string if desired.

New England Heirloom Cake 
2 cups sifted all purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups firmly packed golden brown sugar
2 large eggs, room temperature
2 large egg yolks, room temperature
5 ounces unsweetened chocolate, melted and cooled
1 1/2 cups buttermilk, room temperature
Bittersweet Chocolate frosting
13 walnut halves (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter bottoms of three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms with waxed paper.
Mix flour, soda, and salt in small bowl. Using electric mixer, cream butter in large bowl until light. Gradually add sugar and beat until fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in yolks, then melted chocolate. Mix in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Divide batter among prepared pans. Bake until tester inserted in centers comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Transfer cakes to racks and cool 5 minutes. Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen. Unmold cakes onto paper towel-lined racks. Cool completely.
Peel paper off cakes. Place 1 cake layer on platter. Slide waxed paper strips just under sides of cake. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over, Top with second cake layer. Spread with 3/4 cup frosting. Top with third cake layer. Spread remaining frosting decoratively over top and sides of cake. Remove waxed paper strips. Arrange walnuts around top edge and center of cake if desired. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; store at room temperature.)

Red Velvet Cupcakes 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 eggs
2 tablespoons cocoa powder
2 ounces water
2 ounces red food coloring
1 cup buttermilk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon white vinegar
1 teaspoon baking soda

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Prepare cupcake tins as directed as directed in the recipe you are following.
2. Cream butter and sugar until fluffy.
3. Add eggs and blend well.
4. Make a paste of cocoa and food coloring and add to the butter mixture.
5. Sift flour and salt together into this mixture.
6. One at a time, add the following ingredients: buttermilk, vanilla, and water.
7. In a small bowl, combine the vinegar and baking soda. Fold it into the cake batter. Make sure it's incorporated, but don't beat it.
8. Pour the batter into the cupcake tins. Bake for 15 to 20 minutes, until the cake springs back when touched.
9. Remove from oven and let cool for about 10 minutes, then turn the cupcakes out of the tins and onto a rack to finish cooling completely.

Chocolate Candy Cane Cookies 
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (preferably Dutch-process)
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 large egg
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons powdered sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 teaspoon peppermint extract
2 drops (or more) red food coloring
1/2 cup crushed red-and-white-striped candy canes or hard peppermint candies (about 4 ounces)

Whisk flour, cocoa, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended. Beat in egg. Add dry ingredients; beat until blended. Refrigerate dough 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Scoop out dough by level tablespoonfuls, then roll into smooth balls. Place balls on prepared baking sheets, spacing about 2 inches apart. Using bottom of glass or hands, flatten each ball to 2-inch round (edges will crack). Bake until cookies no longer look wet and small indentation appears when tops of cookies are lightly touched with fingers, about 11 minutes (do not overbake or cookies will become too crisp). Cool on sheet 5 minutes. Transfer chocolate cookies to racks and cool completely.
Using electric mixer, beat powdered sugar and butter in medium bowl until well blended. Add peppermint extract and 2 drops food coloring. Beat until light pink and well blended, adding more food coloring by dropfuls if darker pink color is desired. Spread 2 generous teaspoons filling evenly over flat side of 1 cookie to edges; top with another cookie, flat side down, pressing gently to adhere. Repeat with remaining cookies and peppermint filling.
Place crushed candy canes on plate. Roll edges of cookie sandwiches in crushed candies (candies will adhere to filling). (Cookie sandwiches can be made ahead. Store in single layer in airtight container at room temperature up to 3 days or freeze up to 2 weeks.)

Spiced Madeleines 
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, melted, plus 1 tablespoon (melted) for greasing molds
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground coriander
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/8 teaspoon ground allspice
1/4 cup granulated sugar
3 tablespoons packed light brown sugar
2 large eggs
Confectioners sugar for dusting
a madeleine pan with 12 (3- by 2-inch) molds*

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Brush molds with some melted butter, then chill until set, about 5 minutes. Brush molds again with some melted butter and chill pan.
Sift together flour, baking powder, spices, and a pinch of salt.
Whisk together sugars and eggs until combined well. Add flour mixture and whisk until just combined, then stir in remaining butter (6 tablespoons) until just incorporated. 3Spoon batter into molds, filling them about two thirds full. Bake 5 minutes, then reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees F and bake until springy to the touch and edges are lightly browned, 4 to 6 minutes. Turn out onto a rack and cool 15 minutes. Just before serving, dust with confectioners sugar.
*Available at many cookware shops and Bridge Kitchenware (800-274-3435).

Anzacs 
1 1/2 cups rolled oats
1 cup plus 1 tbsp whole-wheat flour
2/3 cup Sucanat organic sugar (found at health food stores)
1 1/4 cups sweet shredded coconut (comes in a bag)
3/4 cup soybean margarine (found at health food stores)
3 tbsp maple syrup
1 tsp baking soda

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. In medium-sized mixing bowl, combine oats, flour, sugar, and coconut. Melt margarine and syrup in a small saucepan. In another small pan, boil 3 tbsp water, add baking soda and stir. Mix dissolved baking soda into syrup mixture; add to dry ingredients. Form small balls and place on baking sheet about 2 inches apart. Bake 15 minutes or until golden brown.

Eyeball Cupcakes 
White paper cupcake liners
1 recipe batter for
1 recipe Vanilla Butter Cream Frosting
Red food coloring
Pastry bag and small round tip
Small black jelly beans
Round candies with hole in the middle

1. Line cupcake tins with the liners. Fill the tins two-thirds full with the batter and bake the cupcakes as directed in the recipe .
2. Frost the cupcakes, reserving some of the frosting. Pile the frosting up a little in the center to make a sort of domed shape, more like an eyeball. To make the surface smooth, dip a butter or frosting/palette knife in hot water and smooth it over the top of the frosting.
3. Tint the remaining frosting bright red with the food coloring. Using the pastry bag, pipe the red frosting on the tops of the cupcake in vein patterns. Make the veins radiate from the center of the cupcake to make the bloodshot quality more realistic. Cut the jelly beans in half. Place a jelly bean half into the circle of the round candy. Now you have and iris and a pupil. Place this in the center of a cupcake. Continue with the rest of the eyeballs.

Oatmeal Chocolate-Chip (and Bean!) Cookies 
Vegetable-oil cooking spray
1 1/2 cups old-fashioned oats
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp baking soda
1/4 tsp salt
3/4 cup drained great Northern, cannellini or any white beans, liquid reserved
3 tbsp butter, softened
1 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 tsp pure vanilla extract
1 cup milk-chocolate chips

Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat 2 baking sheets with cooking spray. In blender, process oats until finely ground but not powdery. Combine with flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a bowl. In a clean blender, puree beans and 2 tbsp reserved bean liquid until smooth. Combine bean puree, butter, sugar, eggs, and vanilla in a separate bowl and beat well. With the mixer on low speed, beat in oat and flour mixture. Stir in chocolate chips by hand. Drop batter (by the tablespoon) onto baking sheets. Bake 15 to 17 minutes until centers are firm and edges are lightly browned. Transfer to wire rack to cool.

Bleeding Heart Cupcakes 
20 glass marbles or small balls of tinfoil
1 recipe batter for White Cupcakes
2 to 3 cups strawberry jelly or smooth strawberry jam
1 recipe Vanilla Butter Cream Frosting
Red and blue food coloring
Pastry bag and medium round tip (optional)

1. Line cupcake tins with paper liners. Fill the liners two-thirds full with the batter. Place 1 marble or tinfoil ball between each liner and the tin. This will make a dent in your cupcake when it bakes to make it heart-shaped. Bake the cupcakes as directed in the recipe . If you are using marbles, be careful when removing the cupcakes from the tins because the marbles will be very hot.
2. With a small paring knife, cut out a circle about the size of a dime in the center of each cupcake, going about two thirds of the way in. Pull the little plug of cake out. Cut off the top of this piece (about 1/2 inch thick) and eat or discard the bottom. Use a teaspoon or a squeeze bottle to fill the hole partway with the strawberry jelly  inchblood. inch Put the little cake plug back in. Continue with the rest of the hearts.
3. Put one third of the frosting into two separate bowls. Color one bowl of frosting with the red food coloring. Tint the other bowl of the frosting blue. Tint the remaining two thirds pink.
4. Frost the cupcakes with the pink frosting. Make it super smooth by dipping a butter or frosting/palette knife in a bowl of hot water and smoothing it over the top. With the pastry bag or a knife, use the red and blue frosting to make veins on the hearts.

Tarantula Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon baking soda
10 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup light brown sugaar
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1 bag (8 ounces) thin, short pretzel sticks
1 large bag (11 1/2 ounces) milk chocolate chips
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
Chocolate sprinkles
Small red candies

1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
2. In a medium mixing bowl, combine the flour, baking powder, salt, and baking soda. Set aside.
3. In a large mixing bowl, beat together the butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar until light and fluffy. Add the egg and vanilla and beat until well blended.
4. Gradually add the flour mixture and cocoa powder. Beat to form a smooth dough.
5. Roll a tablespoon-sized ball of dough, and place it on a baking sheet. Arrange eight pretzel sticks around the ball like spokes on a wheel. Press the tips of the pretzel sticks firmly into the dough ball. Continue with the rest of the pretzels and dough.
6. Bake until cookies start to brown around edges, about 7-10 minutes.
7. Lift the cookies from the baking sheets with a spatula, and place on wire cooling racks. Let cool completely. Place the racks on sheets of aluminium foil or waxed paper.
8. In a double boiler (or the microwave), melt the chocolate chips with vegetable oil.
9. Pour the melted chocolate over each cookie. Coat with chocolate sprinkles. Press in two red candy eyes on the front of the head. Eeek!

Finger Cookies 
1 cup butter, softened
1 cup powdered sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sliced almonds
2 tablepoons Icing Glue (see below)
1/4 cup powdered sugar
1 teaspoon water

1. In a large mixing bowl, beat the butter until smooth and creamy.
2. Add the sugar, egg, and vanilla extract and mix well.
3. Add the flour, baking powder, and salt and beat until completely mixed.
4. Cover the dough and refrigerate for 30 minutes.
5. Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F.
6. With your hands, roll a heaping tablespoon of dough into a finger shape for each cookie. If the dough gets sticky and hard to work with, put it back in the refrigerator for a little while. Place fingers on an ungreased cookie sheet about 3 inches apart.
7. Use a butter knife to make knuckle marks on the finger cookies. Slightly flatten the front of the finger to create a nail.
8. Bake 20-25 minutes, until fingers are slightly golden. Remove from the oven and let cool. Meanwhile, prepare the Icing Glue. Mix together powdered sugar and water in a small bowl until the consistency is similar to that of a paste.
9. Attach almond slice fingernails to the tips of the fingers with Icing Glue. Let glue dry for about 30 minutes.

Ice Cream Bombe 
2 pints mango sorbet, softened
1 1/2 pints good raspberry sorbet, softened
1 pint good strawberry ice cream, softened

Freeze an 8-inch bowl. When it's cold, place the mango sorbet in the bowl and press it against the sides of the bowl. If you have a 6 1/2-inch bowl the same shape as the 8-inch bowl (such as from a set of nesting bowls), press it into the sorbet to make the layer even. Remove the smaller bowl and freeze for 30 minutes.
Spread an even layer of softened raspberry sorbet on top of the mango sorbet (a 4 1/2-inch nesting bowl helps with this) and freeze for another 30 minutes. Finally, spoon in enough softened strawberry ice cream to fill the bowl. Freeze until hard.
To unmold, dip the bowl up to the rim in warm water. Run a knife around the edge to loosen the bombe and unmold upside down onto a flat plate. You may need to run a flexible metal spatula along the edge of the bombe to release it. Freeze until ready to serve. Serve in wedges.

Madeleines 
1 3/4 sticks (14 tablespoons) unsalted butter, melted and cooled, plus additional for brushing molds
1 2/3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh lemonzest
1 vanilla bean, halved lengthwise
3/4 cup sugar
3 large eggs
1/4 cup whole milk
1 1/2 tablespoons mild honey
3 nonstick madeleine pans with 12 (2-tablespoon) molds each

Put racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Brush molds with melted butter.
Sift together flour and baking powder into a large bowl, then whisk in zest.
Scrape seeds from vanilla bean into another bowl with tip of a paring knife (reserve pod for another use). Add sugar and rub together until vanilla is well dispersed, then whisk in eggs, milk, honey, and remaining 1 3/4 sticks melted butter. Fold into flour mixture until just combined.
Spoon a rounded tablespoon of batter into each mold, filling it about two-thirds full. Bake (with 2 pans on one rack), switching position of pans halfway through baking and rotating 180 degrees, until golden around edges and a wooden pick or skewer inserted into center of a madeleine comes out clean, 10 to 12 minutes total.
Turn out madeleines onto a rack and serve slightly warm.

Flash-in-the-Pan Birthday Cake 
1 1-pound frozen pound cake, thawed
2 pints coffee ice cream, softened slightly
1 1/3 cups prepared hot fudge topping
4 1.2-ounce packages chocolate-covered English toffee (such as Heath bars), chopped
1 cup chilled whipping cream, whipped to peaks

Cut pound cake into 1/3-inch-thick slices. Halve each diagonally, forming triangles. Line bottom of 9-inch springform pan with cake by arranging some triangles, points facing in, around bottom edge of pan. Fill in center with more triangles, then cut additional pieces to fill in any remaining spaces. Spread half of ice cream over cake. Freeze until firm, about 1 hour.
Spread half of fudge topping over ice cream. Sprinkle with half of chopped candy. Repeat layering with remaining cake, ice cream, fudge topping and candy, freezing after adding ice cream. Cover tightly and freeze until ice cream is set, about 30 minutes. (Can be prepared up to 2 days ahead.)
Remove pan sides. Place cake on platter. Spread some of whipped cream over sides of cake. Spoon remaining cream into pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Pipe cream in rosettes around upper edge of cake.

Lemon and Blueberry Upside-Down Cake 
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 4 pieces
1 1/2 cups fresh blueberries
3/4 cup cake flour
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon fine sea salt
4 ounces almond paste (scant 1/2 cup), broken into small pieces
1/2 cup sugar
3 tablespoons finely grated lemon peel
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 8 pieces, room temperature
3 large eggs, room temperature
Lemon slices (optional)
Lemon peel curls (optional)
Additional fresh blueberries
Lemon Whipped Cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine brown sugar and butter in 8-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides (preferably nonstick). Place cake pan over medium heat and whisk constantly until butter and sugar melt and mixture is smooth and bubbling. Using pot holders, remove pan from heat; cool 15 minutes. Sprinkle blueberries evenly over.
Sift flour, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Combine almond paste, sugar, and lemon peel in bowl of stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment. Beat on medium speed until almond paste is broken into very small pieces, about 1 minute. Add butter, 1 piece at a time, beating until mixture is smooth and scraping down sides of bowl occasionally. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well and scraping sides of bowl after each addition. Add flour mixture and beat just until batter is smooth. Spoon batter in dollops over blueberries in pan; spread evenly with offset spatula to smooth.
Bake cake until deep golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 43 minutes. Remove from oven; let stand 1 minute. Run small knife around cake to loosen. Place large platter atop pan. Using oven mitts or potholders and using both hands, hold platter and cake pan firmly together and invert; shake gently, allowing cake to settle on platter. Cool at least 20 minutes.
Garnish cake with lemon slices and lemon peel curls, if desired. Serve warm or at room temperature with additional blueberries and Lemon Whipped Cream.

Rum-Raisin Apple Cake 
1/2 cup dark rum
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
2 cups sugar
3 large eggs
3/4 cup vegetable oil
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
4 large Fuji apples (about 2 pounds), peeled, cored, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 cup chopped walnuts
1 cup golden raisins

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13x9x2-inch metal baking pan. Boil rum in heavy small saucepan until reduced to 1/4 cup. Set aside.
Sift next 5 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat rum, sugar, eggs, oil, and vanilla in large bowl until slightly thickened, about 5 minutes. Add flour mixture; beat just until blended. Stir in apples, walnuts, and raisins. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack. Cut into squares and serve.

Chocolate Hazelnut Torte 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter plus additional for greasing pan
1 cup hazelnuts (5 oz)
6 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened; not more than 60% cacao)
2 tablespoons potato starch
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sugar
4 large eggs, separated, at room temperature for 30 minutes
1 teaspoon vanilla
Garnish: Passover confectioners sugar
a 9- to 91/2-inch springform pan; parchment paper

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Generously butter bottom and side of springform pan, then line bottom with a round of parchment paper and butter parchment paper.
Toast hazelnuts in a shallow baking pan in oven, shaking pan once or twice, until golden, about 12 minutes. Place nuts in a kitchen towel and rub off any loose skins while nuts are still warm, then cool nuts completely.
Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
While nuts cool, melt butter and chocolate together in a heatproof bowl set over a pot of simmering water.
Pulse hazelnuts in a food processor with potato starch, salt, and 1/4 cup sugar until finely ground. (Be careful not to grind to a paste.)
Whisk together yolks and 2 tablespoons sugar in a large bowl. Whisk in chocolate mixture, then add nut mixture and vanilla and whisk until combined (mixture will be slightly grainy).
Beat whites with a pinch of salt in another bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until they hold soft peaks. Add remaining 2 tablespoons sugar a little at a time, beating, and beat until whites just hold stiff peaks. Fold one fourth of whites into chocolate mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Pour batter into springform pan, then bake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out with a few moist crumbs adhering, 35 to 40 minutes. Transfer to a rack and cool completely in pan, about 1 hour. Run a knife around edge of torte to loosen, then remove side of pan. Dust with Passover confectioners sugar .

Spiced Waffles with Caramelized Apples 
2/3 cup plus 3 tablespoons all purpose flour
6 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons whole wheat flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/4 teaspoons ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon ground coriander
1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg
Large pinch of ground cloves
Large pinch of ground white pepper
3/4 cup buttermilk
2 tablespoons honey
1 large egg, separated
1/2 teaspoon grated orange peel
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
Vanilla ice cream
Caramelized Apples

Whisk first 12 ingredients in large bowl to blend. Whisk buttermilk, honey, egg yolk, and orange peel in medium bowl to blend. Whisk buttermilk mixture into dry ingredients. Stir in melted butter. Beat egg white in another medium bowl until stiff but not dry; fold into batter.
Spray 8- to 9-inch square waffle iron with nonstick spray and preheat. Pour half of batter (about 1 cup) onto hot iron. Close top and cook until brown and set, about 3 minutes (time will vary depending on machine). Transfer waffle to large rack placed on rimmed baking sheet. Repeat with remaining batter. (Can be made ahead. Let stand at room temperature up to 3 hours or cool completely, wrap in foil, and let stand at room temperature 1 day. Rewarm uncovered on rack on baking sheet in 350 degrees F oven until crisp, about 5 minutes per side.)
Cut waffles into squares. Divide squares among 4 plates. Top with ice cream and Caramelized Apples.

Off-to-Bed Butter Cookies 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons granulated sugar
2 teaspoons heavy cream
3 tablespoons turbinado sugar such as Sugar in the Raw
parchment paper

Stir together flour and salt in a bowl.
Beat together butter and granulated sugar with an electric mixer at medium-high speed in a large bowl until pale and fluffy. Reduce speed to low, then add flour mixture in 3 batches, mixing, and continue to mix until batter just comes together in clumps. Gather clumps to form a dough, then press dough with lightly floured hands into a smooth 1 1/4-inch-thick log on a very lightly floured work surface. Chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, at least 1 hour.
Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Cut chilled log crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick slices and arrange slices about 1/2 inch apart on baking sheets. Brush tops of cookies lightly with cream, then sprinkle generously with turbinado sugar.
Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until edges are pale golden, 12 to 15 minutes total. Cool on sheets on racks.

Brown Sugar Caramel Souffles 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
1 cup (packed) plus 2 tablespoons dark brown sugar, plus additional for sprinkling
1/2 cup whipping cream
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon (scant) salt
3 large egg yolks
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
6 large egg whites

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Butter eight 3/4-cup soufflé dishes; sprinkle with brown sugar. Place on rimmed baking sheet. Melt butter in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat; add 1 cup brown sugar, cream, vanilla, and salt; stir until sugar dissolves. Cool slightly. Pour 1/2 cup caramel into small bowl; reserve for sauce.
Add egg yolks and flour to remaining caramel in saucepan; whisk constantly over medium heat until mixture thickens, about 3 minutes. Cool 15 minutes. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites in large bowl until foamy, then gradually beat in 2 tablespoons brown sugar until whites are stiff but not dry. Fold 1/3 of whites into caramel mixture in saucepan. Fold caramel mixture into whites until incorporated. Divide mixture among prepared dishes. Sprinkle lightly with brown sugar. Bake until soufflés are puffed and golden brown, about 11 minutes. Serve immediately with reserved caramel sauce.

Coconut Tres Leches Cake with Caramelized Bananas 
2 cups sifted cake flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/3 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup light butter, softened
1/2 cup puréed bananas (approximately 1/2 banana)
3/4 cup skim milk
1 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 teaspoon pure coconut extract
1/2 cup egg whites, stiffly beaten
1/2 (14-ounce) can fat-free sweetened condensed milk
3/4 cup evaporated skim milk
2/3 cup light coconut milk
1/4 cup packed brown sugar
2 tablespoons dark rum
4 bananas, sliced
1 2/3 cups fat-free whipped topping
2 tablespoons toasted shredded coconut

Sift the cake flour, baking powder and salt into a bowl. Cream the sugar, butter and banana purée in a mixing bowl until light and fluffy. Add 1/3 flour mixture and 1/3 skim milk alternately; mixing well after each addition. Mix in the vanilla and coconut extracts. Fold in the egg whites. Spray a 6 x 8-inch cake pan with nonstick cooking spray. Flour the pan. Pour the batter into the prepared pan. Bake at 375 degrees F for 50 minutes or until the cake tests done. Remove from the oven and cool in the pan for 10 minutes. Remove to a wire rack to cool completely. Combine the condensed milk, 3/4 cup skim milk and coconut milk in a bowl; mix well. Arrange the cake on a serving platter. Poke holes all over the cake with a wooden pick or skewer. Spoon the milk mixture over the cake. Cover the cake and chill in the refrigerator for 4 hours. Combine the brown sugar and rum in a saucepan over medium heat. Cook until the mixture reduces to a syrupy consistency. Add the bananas and stir gently to coat the fruit. Remove from the heat and cool to room temperature. Top each serving of cake with whipped topping and a scattering of toasted coconut. Serve the bananas on the side.

Lemon-Ginger Cake with Pistachios 
7 large eggs
4 large egg yolks
1 cup fresh lemon juice
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, diced
3/4 cup sugar
2 1/2 tablespoons (packed) finely grated lemon peel
4 cups all purpose flour
2 1/4 cups sugar
5 teaspoons ground ginger
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons fine sea salt
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/3 cups whole milk
2 1/2 tablespoons (packed) finely grated lemon peel
8 large egg whites, room temperature, divided
1 cup blackberry preserves
1/4 cup water
2 teaspoons unflavored gelatin
4 large egg whites, room temperature
3 tablespoons sugar
White chocolate curls
1/4 cup chopped natural unsalted pistachios (about 2 ounces)
2 tablespoons chopped crystallized ginger (about 1 1/2 ounces)

Whisk eggs and yolks in large bowl. Combine lemon juice, butter, and sugar in medium metal bowl. Set over saucepan of simmering water; stir until sugar dissolves. Gradually whisk hot lemon mixture into egg mixture. Return mixture to bowl set over water; whisk constantly until mixture thickens and instant-read thermometer registers 180 degrees F, about 5 minutes. Pour curd through fine strainer set over bowl; stir in lemon peel.
Place plastic wrap directly on surface of curd. Refrigerate until cold, at least 8 hours or overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Lightly butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pans with parchment rounds. Sift first five ingredients into large bowl of stand mixer fitted with whisk attachment. Add butter, milk, and lemon peel and beat on medium-high speed until thick batter forms, about 2 minutes. Add 4 egg whites; beat until smooth. Add remaining 4 egg whites; beat until well blended and smooth. Divide batter between prepared pans (about generous 4 1/2 cups for each); smooth tops with offset spatula.
Bake cakes until golden and tester inserted into centers come out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool in pans on rack 10 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks; remove parchment and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap in foil and store at room temperature.)
Cut domed tops from both cakes, making each cake 1 1/4 to 1 1/3 inches high. Using long serrated knife, cut each cake horizontally in half. Place 3 cake layers on separate cardboard rounds or plates (reserve fourth cake layer for another use). Spread 1/3 cup preserves over top of each of 3 cake layers.
Transfer 1 cup curd to large bowl; reserve for mousse. Divide remaining curd among layers (generous 3/4 cup for each); spread evenly over preserves to edge of layers. Refrigerate layers separately while preparing mousse (do not stack cake layers).
Pour 1/4 cup water into small saucepan; sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand until gelatin softens, about 15 minutes. Place saucepan over low heat, stirring until gelatin dissolves, about 2 minutes (mixture will be lukewarm). Stir gelatin into reserved 1 cup lemon curd.
Using electric mixer, beat egg whites and 3 tablespoons sugar in large bowl until stiff but not dry. Fold egg whites into curd mixture in 2 additions; set aside until mousse begins to set slightly, about 10 minutes. Spoon 1/3 of lemon mousse (scant 1 cup) atop each layer, then spread gently to edges using offset spatula. Chill layers until mousse firms up slightly, about 30 minutes.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Gently top with second, then third, being careful not to press down firmly. Refrigerate at least 2 hours. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and keep refrigerated.)
Garnish top edge of cake with white chocolate curls. Sprinkle pistachios and crystallized ginger in center of cake.

Brown-Sugar Spice Cake with Cream and Caramelized Apples 
8 Gala apples (3 1/2 pounds)
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup packed light brown sugar
1 large egg
1/2 cup dark amber or Grade B maple syrup
1/2 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/4 cups chilled heavy cream
1/2 cup sour cream
2 tablespoons sugar
an 8-inch square nonstick cake pan (2 inches deep)

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter and flour cake pan, knocking out excess flour.
Peel and core apples, then cut into 1/2-inch-thick wedges.
Spread softened butter in an even layer over bottom of a 12-inch heavy skillet and sprinkle with brown sugar. Add apple wedges and cook over moderate heat, without stirring, until sugar is melted and apples start to give off liquid, about 10 minutes. Cook, stirring occasionally, until apples are just tender and juices become syrupy, about 30 minutes more.
Pour syrup from skillet into a small heatproof bowl, then sauté apples, stirring occasionally, until caramelized and very tender, about 30 minutes more. Return syrup to apples and cook until heated through, about 2 minutes.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, and spices in a bowl.
Beat together butter and brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale and fluffy. Beat in egg until combined. Add maple syrup, sour cream, and vanilla and beat until combined well. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture, then mix until just incorporated.
Spread batter in cake pan and bake until cake is golden brown and a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out clean, 35 to 40 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes.
Beat cream with sour cream and sugar using cleaned beaters at high speed until it just holds soft peaks.
Run a thin knife around edge of pan, then invert cake onto a plate and cut into squares. Serve warm or at room temperature, topped with warm apple mixture and cream.

Boiled Raisin Cake 
2 cups brewed coffee (not espresso)
2 1/2 cups jumbo raisins (15 ounces)
2 cups dried currants (10 ounces)
2/3 cup chopped candied orange peel* (4 ounces)
3/4 cup packed dark brown sugar
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter plus additional for greasing
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 teaspoon salt
a 10-inch tube pan (4 1/2 inches high; without a removable bottom)

Gently boil coffee, raisins, currants, orange peel, sugars, nutmeg, and butter over moderate heat, uncovered, in a 3-quart heavy saucepan, stirring occasionally, 5 minutes. Cool mixture to room temperature, stirring occasionally, about 1 hour.
Put a small roasting pan filled halfway with hot water on rack in lowest position in oven (to provide moisture during baking). Put remaining oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter tube pan.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a bowl, then stir into raisin mixture until combined well. Spoon batter into tube pan and smooth top. Bake in middle of oven until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center of cake comes out clean, about 1 1/2 hours.
Cool cake completely in pan on a rack, about 2 1/2 hours, then turn out onto a serving plate.
*Available at chefshop.com.

Chocolate Almond Shortbread 
1/2 cup blanched whole almonds (3 oz)
1 cup all-purpose flour
5 tablespoons superfine granulated sugar
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder (preferably Dutch-process)
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
Confectioners sugar for dusting

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Pulse almonds with flour, granulated sugar, cocoa, cinnamon, and salt in a food processor until very finely chopped. Add butter and pulse just until a dough forms.
Press dough evenly into an ungreased 9-inch square baking pan with your fingers. Cut dough into 16 squares with a sharp knife, then cut squares diagonally to make a total of 32 triangles.
Bake until cookies are dry to the touch, 15 to 17 minutes. Transfer pan to a rack and run a thin knife around edge of pan to loosen cookies while hot. Recut hot cookies into triangles, then cool completely in pan. Dust with confectioners sugar just before serving.

Upside-Down Butterscotch Apple Sour Cream Cake 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup baker's sugar (superfine sugar) or regular sugar
2 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup sour cream
1/2 Golden Delicious apple, peeled, cored, finely chopped (about 3/4 cup)
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter
1/3 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/3 cup butterscotch morsels
2 8-ounce Golden Delicious apples, peeled, halved, cored, cut into 1/4-inch-thick slices

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Mix flour, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth. Gradually add sugar and beat until well blended. Add eggs and vanilla; beat until blended. Beat in flour mixture, then sour cream. Stir in chopped apple. Set aside while preparing butterscotch-caramel apples.
Melt butter in 10-inch-diameter nonstick ovenproof skillet over medium heat. Add brown sugar and butterscotch morsels; stir until melted and smooth and mixture is bubbling, about 2 minutes. Add apple slices to skillet and cook until golden brown, using tongs to turn slices, about 3 minutes per side (there will be a lot of liquid in skillet). Remove skillet from heat and let cool 3 minutes. Using tongs, arrange apple slices in skillet in concentric circles or other pattern.
Carefully spoon cake batter in small dollops atop apples in skillet. Using offset spatula, gently spread batter evenly to edges of skillet (batter will seem to float on top of apples and pan juices). Bake until cake is golden brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool in skillet 10 minutes. Run knife around edges of cake to loosen. Place large platter atop skillet. Using oven mitts or pot holders, hold platter and skillet firmly together and invert, allowing cake to settle onto platter. Serve cake warm.

Parsnip Spice Cake with Ginger Cream Cheese Frosting 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon ground ginger
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon plus 1/8 teaspoon salt
3/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
3/4 teaspoon ground allspice
3/4 teaspoon ground cloves
3 large eggs
1/2 cup canola oil or vegetable oil
1/2 cup whole milk
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract, divided
2 cups (packed) shredded peeled parsnips (about 3 large)
1/2 cup walnuts, toasted, chopped
4 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
2 tablespoons butter, room temperature
2 teaspoons grated peeled fresh ginger
3 cups (about 12 ounces) powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13x9x2-inch baking pan. Combine flour, sugar, ground ginger, baking powder, cinnamon, 3/4 teaspoon salt, nutmeg, allspice, and cloves in large bowl; whisk to combine. Whisk eggs, oil, milk, and 1 teaspoon vanilla in medium bowl to combine. Pour egg mixture over dry ingredients; stir until just combined. Stir in parsnips and walnuts. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan on rack.
Beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until smooth. Beat in fresh ginger and remaining 1/8 teaspoon salt and 1/2 teaspoon vanilla. Gradually add powdered sugar and beat until frosting is smooth. Spread over cake. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and chill.)

Warm Sour Apple and Buttermilk Torte 
Canola-oil cooking spray
2/3 cup flour plus extra for dusting
3 tbsp unsalted butter, softened
2/3 cup plus 1 tbsp raw cane sugar
1/4 cup lowfat buttermilk
2 egg whites
1/3 cup polenta (or cornmeal)
3/4 tsp baking powder
3/4 tsp vanilla extract
4 Granny Smith apples, peeled, cored and thinly sliced

Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Coat a 9 inch cake pan with cooking spray; dust with flour. Beat butter and 1/3 cup sugar in a bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy. Beat in another 1/3 cup sugar. Add buttermilk, then egg whites one at a time, beating well. In another bowl, mix flour, polenta and baking powder. Add to butter mixture along with vanilla; mix. Pour into pan; arrange apples on top. Sprinkle with remaining 1 tbsp sugar; bake 45 to 55 minutes.

Orange-Pecan Cookies 
1 cup chopped pecans
1/3 cup sugar
1 tsp grated orange zest
1 tsp orange extract
1 egg white, lightly beaten
Canola-oil cooking spray
Powdered sugar (optional)

Pulse pecans and sugar in a food processor into a sandlike texture. Transfer to a bowl and stir in zest and extract. Slowly stir in egg white until a thin dough forms. Cover and chill at least 2 hours. Heat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat a baking sheet with cooking spray. Measure 16 heaping teaspoonsful of dough and roll each into a ball. Place balls on sheet, 2 inches apart. Bake 8 to 10 minutes. Cool completely before removing from pan. Dust with powdered sugar if desired.

Warm Chocolate Cakes with Coffee Crème Anglaise 
1/3 cup 2 percent milk
4 tsp sugar
1 1-inch piece vanilla bean
4 tsp brewed coffee
1 egg yolk
1 egg, separated
2 tbsp sugar
1/4 cup chopped bittersweet chocolate
7 tsp nonfat plain yogurt
Canola-oil cooking spray

Bring first 4 ingredients to a simmer in a medium pan over medium heat, stirring continuously. Remove vanilla bean; scrape seeds into sauce. Place egg yolk in a bowl. Stir in 2 tbsp hot-milk mixture; add back to pan. Cook 1 minute; stir. Remove from heat; cool. Cover and refrigerate.
Beat egg white in a bowl with an electric mixer on high until foamy. Add 1/2 tsp sugar; continue beating on high, adding 5 more 1/2-tsp increments of sugar until stiff peaks form. In another bowl, beat egg yolk with remaining 1 tbsp sugar until thick. Melt chocolate in a double boiler or microwave. Remove from heat; stir in yogurt; add to egg yolk mixture. Fold in egg white mixture. Cover; refrigerate at least 1 hour. Heat oven to 325 degrees F. Coat 4 molds in a muffin tin with cooking spray; pour in batter. Bake 12 minutes or until cake springs back when touched. Cool slightly. Pour 2 tbsp sauce on each of 4 plates (or serve in a creamer on the side); put 1 cake on top of each.

Mrs. Mackinnon's Christmas Fruitcake 
2 1/2 cups golden raisins (about 12 ounces)
2 cups dark raisins (about 9 ounces)
1 3/4 cups dried currants (about 8 ounces)
1 3/4 cups chopped glacéed fruits (such as red cherries, pineapple, and apricots)
3/4 cup chopped candied orange peel
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup plus 6 tablespoons dark rum
2 teaspoons each grated orange and lemon peels
1 teaspoon Lyle's Golden Syrup or light molasses
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1/3 cup self-rising flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons (2 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups (packed) dark brown sugar
5 large eggs

Mix first 6 ingredients in large saucepan. Add 1/2 cup rum; bring to simmer over medium heat, stirring often. Remove from heat. Mix in grated orange and lemon peels, syrup, and baking soda. Let stand until fruit mixture absorbs liquid, stirring often, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 10-inch-diameter springform pan, then line bottom and sides of pan with parchment; butter parchment. Sift both flours and salt into medium bowl. Beat butter and sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Add flour mixture; beat until just blended. Stir in fruit mixture. Transfer batter to pan. Cover pan with foil.
Bake cake 2 hours. Reduce oven temperature to 275 degrees F; continue to bake covered until tester inserted into center comes out clean but slightly moist, about 30 minutes longer. Transfer to rack; remove foil. Pierce top of cake all over with skewer. Drizzle 6 tablespoons rum very gradually over cake. Cool completely in pan. Cut around pan sides to loosen; remove pan sides. (Can be made 3 weeks ahead. Wrap in foil; chill. Bring to room temperature before serving.)

Milk Chocolate-Peanut Butter Sandwich Cookies 
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1/2 cup plus 1/3 cup powdered sugar
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon (packed) dark brown sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup creamy peanut butter
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 large egg
1 1/3 cups (about 8 ounces) milk chocolate chips
3 ounces high-quality milk chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), chopped
1/4 cup creamy peanut butter
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
1/4 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
6 tablespoons whipping cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Whisk first 4 ingredients in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat powdered sugar, dark brown sugar, and butter in large bowl to blend.
Add peanut butter; beat until creamy. Gradually beat in vegetable oil and vanilla extract, then egg. Add dry ingredients; mix just until blended. Stir in milk chocolate chips.
Drop cookie dough by level tablespoonfuls onto ungreased baking sheets, spacing about 1 1/2 inches apart. Bake cookies until puffed and golden brown, about 12 minutes. Cool slightly, then transfer cookies to rack to cool completely.
Place chocolate, peanut butter, powdered sugar, and kosher salt in medium bowl. Bring whipping cream to boil in heavy small saucepan. Pour hot cream over chocolate mixture; stir until mixture is melted and smooth. Chill until filling is thick and spreadable, about 1 hour.
Spread about 1 rounded teaspoonful chocolate-peanut butter filling on flat side of 1 cookie. Top with second cookie, forming sandwich. Repeat with remaining filling and cookies. (Cookie sandwiches can be made 1 day ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Fig Swirls 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
4 oz cream cheese at room temperature
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup packed soft dried Mission figs (8 oz), hard tips discarded
3/4 cup mild honey
2 tablespoons fresh orange juice
2 teaspoons grated fresh orange zest
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon

Whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a bowl.
Pulse butter, cream cheese, yolk, and vanilla in a food processor until smooth, then add flour mixture and pulse until dough just forms a ball.
Halve dough and form each half into a roughly 6- by 2-inch rectangle. Chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, about 1 1/2 hours.
Purée figs, honey, juice, zest, and cinnamon in cleaned food processor until almost smooth.
Roll out 1 piece of dough between 2 sheets of wax paper into a 10- by 8-inch rectangle (about 1/3 inch thick), long side facing you. Remove top sheet of wax paper and gently spread one fourth of fig mixture over bottom half of dough, leaving a 1/4-inch border. Using wax paper as an aid, roll dough, jelly-roll style, halfway, enclosing fig mixture. Flip dough, with wax paper. Remove paper. Spread with one third of remaining fig mixture and roll in same manner, to form an S-shaped log. Make another log. Chill logs, wrapped in wax paper, until firm, at least 4 hours.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Cut logs crosswise into 1/3-inch-thick slices and arrange slices about 2 inches apart on lightly buttered baking sheets. Bake until pastry is pale golden, 12 to 15 minutes. Transfer to racks to cool.

Linzer Cookies 
2/3 cup hazelnuts (3 oz)
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 12-oz jar seedless raspberry jam
a 2- to 2 1/4-inch fluted round cookie cutter and assorted 1/2-inch shaped cookie cutters or aspic cutters

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Toast hazelnuts in a shallow baking pan until fragrant and skins begin to loosen, about 6 minutes. Rub nuts in a kitchen towel to remove any loose skins (some skins may not come off), then cool to room temperature.
Pulse nuts and 1/4 cup brown sugar in a food processor until nuts are finely ground.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, salt, and cinnamon in a small bowl.
Beat together butter and remaining 1/4 cup brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes in a stand mixer (preferably fitted with paddle) or 6 minutes with a handheld. Add nut mixture and beat until combined well, about 1 minute. Beat in egg and vanilla. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture, mixing until just combined.
With floured hands, form dough into 2 balls and flatten each into a 5-inch disk. Chill disks, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, at least 2 hours.
Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Roll out 1 disk of dough into an 11-inch round (1/8 inch thick) between 2 sheets of wax paper (keep remaining dough chilled). If dough becomes too soft to roll out, rewrap in plastic and chill until firm. Cut out as many cookies as possible from dough with larger cookie cutter and transfer to 2 ungreased large baking sheets, arranging about 1 inch apart. Using smaller cutters, cut out centers from half of the cookies, reserving centers and rerolling along with scraps (reroll only once). Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until edges are golden, 10 to 15 minutes total, then transfer with a metal spatula to racks to cool completely. Make more cookies from second disk.
Spread about 1 teaspoon jam on flat side of 1 solid cookie and sandwich jam with flat side of 1 windowed cookie. Sandwich remaining cookies in same manner.

Frozen Lemon Meringue Cake 
4 large egg whites at room temperature for 30 minutes
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice (from 2 medium lemons)
1 1/2 tablespoons fresh lemon zest (from 2 medium lemons)
2/3 cup sugar
4 large egg yolks
2 whole large eggs
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, cut into tablespoon pieces
1 pint (2 cups) vanilla ice cream (preferably premium)
2 (15- by 12-inch) sheets of parchment paper; an 8-inch (20-cm) springform pan

Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 200 degrees F.
Using the bottom of the springform pan as a guide, draw 2 (8-inch) circles on one sheet of parchment and a third (8-inch) circle on the second sheet of parchment. Turn paper over (circles will be visible).
Beat whites with cream of tartar and salt in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until they hold soft peaks. Beat in sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, then increase speed to high and continue beating until whites hold stiff, glossy peaks, about 4 minutes in a stand mixer or 8 to 10 minutes with a handheld. Divide meringue mixture among 3 circles, spread evenly within lines, and gently smooth tops. Bake until firm and very pale golden, about 2 hours, then let stand in turned-off oven (door closed) until firm, about 1 hour. While meringues bake, put ice cream in refrigerator to soften.
Slide parchment sheets with meringue layers onto racks to cool completely. Carefully lift meringue and peel off parchment.
Whisk together lemon juice, zest, sugar, yolks, whole eggs, and salt in a 2-quart heavy saucepan. Stir in butter and cook over moderately low heat, whisking frequently, until mixture is thickened and just reaches a boil, about 6 minutes. Transfer lemon curd to a bowl and chill, its surface covered with plastic wrap, until cold, at least 1 hour.
Line springform pan with 2 crisscrossed sheets of plastic wrap. Arrange 1 meringue layer (trimming if necessary) flat side down in springform pan and spread 1 cup ice cream over it, then evenly spread half of lemon curd over ice cream. Cover curd with another meringue layer, then spread remaining cup ice cream over meringue. Spread remaining curd on top, then cover curd with remaining meringue layer, flat side down. Cover with plastic wrap and freeze until firm, at least 4 hours.
About 1 hour before serving, put cake in refrigerator to soften slightly. Remove side of pan and transfer cake to platter, then cut into wedges with a long serrated knife.

Chocolate Soufflé Cake with Orange Caramel Sauce 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, cut into pieces, plus additional for greasing pan
9 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not more than 60% cacao if marked), chopped
6 large eggs, separated
2/3 cup plus 1/2 cup superfine granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 navel or Valencia oranges
a 10-inch springform pan

Put a small roasting pan filled halfway with hot water in bottom third of oven (to provide moisture during baking). Position another oven rack in middle of oven, then preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter springform pan and line bottom with a round of parchment or wax paper. Butter paper.
Melt butter (2 sticks) and chocolate together in a 2-quart heavy saucepan over low heat, stirring, then remove from heat. Beat together yolks, 1/3 cup sugar, and salt in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until thick enough to form a ribbon that takes 2 seconds to dissolve into mixture when beater is lifted, 6 to 8 minutes in a stand mixer or 10 to 14 minutes with a handheld. Stir warm chocolate mixture into yolk mixture until combined well.
Beat whites in another large bowl with cleaned beaters at medium speed until they just hold soft peaks. Gradually add 1/3 cup sugar, beating until whites just hold stiff peaks. Stir one fourth of whites into chocolate mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Pour batter into springform pan and bake in middle of oven (do not place springform pan in hot water) until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out with crumbs adhering, about 1 hour (a crust will form and crack on top of cake as it bakes). Transfer to a rack and cool 10 minutes (cake will  inchdeflate inch as it cools).
Run a thin knife carefully around edge of cake, then remove side of pan. Cool cake on bottom of pan 30 minutes. Invert a rack over cake and invert cake onto rack, then remove bottom of pan and carefully peel off paper. Invert a serving plate over cake, then invert cake onto plate.
Remove zest from 2 oranges and trim any white pith from zest with a paring knife. Cut enough very thin strips of zest to measure 1/4 cup. Squeeze juice from all 3 oranges and pour through a fine-mesh sieve into a bowl. Measure out 1 cup juice and reserve remainder for another use.
Cook remaining 1/2 cup sugar in a dry 1- to 2-quart heavy saucepan over moderate heat, undisturbed, until it begins to melt. Continue to cook, stirring occasionally with a fork, until sugar is melted into a deep golden caramel. Add zest and cook, stirring, until fragrant, about 15 seconds. Tilt pan and carefully pour in juice (caramel will harden and steam vigorously). Cook over moderately low heat, stirring, until caramel is dissolved, then cool sauce.
Serve cake with orange caramel sauce.

Almond Butter Cake 
1 2/3 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, frozen
1/2 cup ice water
1/4 cup pure almond paste (2 oz)
1/4 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1 large egg
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 whole almond or a dried bean, such as a lima bean
1 large egg
1 tablespoon milk
1/2 tablespoon confectioners sugar for dusting
a pastry or bench scraper; 2 large baking sheets (at least 12 inches wide), not dark metal (or pastry may overbrown)

Sift together flour, salt, and sugar into a chilled large metal bowl. Set a grater over flour mixture and coarsely grate frozen butter into flour, gently lifting flour and tossing to coat butter.
Drizzle ice water evenly over flour mixture and gently stir with a fork until incorporated. Turn out mixture onto a lightly floured surface and divide into 6 portions. With heel of your hand, smear each portion once or twice in a forward motion to help distribute fat. Gather dough together with scraper and form into a 6- to 7-inch square. Wrap in plastic wrap and chill at least 1 hour. (Dough will be lumpy and streaky.)
Purée almond paste, sugar, butter, and a pinch of salt in a food processor until smooth. Add egg, vanilla, and almond extract and purée until incorporated. Add flour and pulse until incorporated. Transfer to a small bowl and chill, covered, to firm at least 1 hour.
Roll out dough on a well-floured surface with a floured rolling pin into a 21- by 7-inch rectangle and arrange rectangle with a short side nearest you. Fold into thirds, first the top down and then the bottom up (like a letter), brushing off excess flour, to form a roughly 7-inch square. Rewrap dough and chill 20 minutes.
Arrange square on floured surface so that a side with 3 layers visible is nearest you and roll into a 21- by 7-inch rectangle, rolling lengthwise away from and toward yourself, but not side to side. Fold in thirds, brush off excess flour, and chill 20 minutes. Repeat rolling out, folding in thirds, and chilling 3 more times. After last round of rolling and folding, chill rewrapped dough 1 hour.
Roll out dough in same manner into a rectangle 24 inches long, then cut in half crosswise. On a floured surface, roll out each piece of pastry into a 12-inch square and transfer to separate baking sheets by rolling pastry around rolling pin, brushing off excess flour, then unrolling onto baking sheets. Chill squares until firm, about 10 minutes in freezer or 30 minutes in refrigerator.
Put an oven rack in lowest position and another in top third of oven and preheat oven to 450 degrees F.
Stir together egg and milk in a small bowl with a fork to make an egg wash.
Using a plate as a guide, cut 1 pastry square on baking sheet into an 11-inch round, reserving excess dough for another use. Using tip of a knife and a smaller plate as a guide, score a 9-inch circle, leaving a 1-inch border all around. (If at any time pastry becomes too soft to work with, chill until firm.) Cut a 1/2-inch circle in center of round to serve as a steam vent, then score curved lines close together inside 9-inch circle in a pinwheel design and lightly brush pastry all over with egg wash. Chill scored pastry on a baking sheet while preparing remaining pastry.
Cut remaining square into an 11-inch round in same manner. Brush some of egg wash in a 1-inch wide border around edge of round and mound chilled filling in center, spreading to about 1 1/2 inches from edge. Bury almond or bean anywhere in filling. Slide chilled pastry round gently over filling, scored side up, and press edges of rounds together to seal. Cut decorative notches, 1 inch apart, around sealed edge of galette.
Using a fine-mesh sieve, dust top of galette with confectioners sugar.
Bake on baking sheet on bottom rack of oven until puffed and golden, 15 to 20 minutes. Transfer galette to upper third of oven and continue baking until very puffed and deep golden brown, 10 to 15 minutes more. Transfer to a rack to cool slightly, 5 to 10 minutes (galette will deflate slightly). Serve warm.

Cinnamon-Almond Cookies 
3 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter,room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 large egg
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups sliced or blanched slivered almonds

Sift first 4 ingredients into medium bowl. Beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in both sugars. Add egg and egg yolk; beat to blend. Beat in vanilla and salt. Add flour mixture and beat until dough comes together in moist clumps. Add almonds and knead gently in bowl with hands until blended.
Divide dough into 4 equal portions. Roll each into 10-inch-long log, about 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 inches in diameter. Wrap dough in 2 layers of plastic and place in freezer until frozen, at least 4 hours. (Can be prepared 1 month ahead. Keep frozen.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Working with 1 log at a time, remove plastic and cut crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick rounds. Place rounds on ungreased baking sheet, spacing 1 inch apart.
Bake until light golden brown, about 12 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 4 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Coconut Cake 
1 14-ounce package sweetened shredded coconut
2 cups hot water
2 sticks butter, softened
2 cups sugar
6 eggs
1 pound mochiko (sweet mochi rice flour available at most Asian grocery stores)

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a 9x13-inch cake pan.
In a bowl, soak the coconut in the hot water. In a separate bowl, cream the butter and sugar. Add the eggs one at a time, mixing until the egg is completely incorporated before adding the next one. Add half the mochiko and mix until completely incorporated. Add half the coconut and water and mix until completely incorporated. Add the remaining mochiko and mix until completely incorporated. Add the remaining coconut and water and mix until completely incorporated. Pour into the prepared pan.
Bake for approximately 45 minutes or until the edges are slightly brown. Cut into squares to serve. Or turn the cake out onto a cutting board and use a ring mold or cookie cutter to cut out shapes.

Chocolate-Glazed Hazelnut Mousse Cake 
2 tablespoons hazelnuts, toasted and skins rubbed off
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2 tablespoons unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon unflavored gelatin (from a 1/4-oz envelope)
3 tablespoons cold water
1/2 cup chocolate hazelnut spread such as Nutella (5 oz)
1/2 cup mascarpone (1/4 lb)
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
3 tablespoons sugar
1/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon heavy cream
3 1/2 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
1 parchment paper
an 8-inch (20-cm) springform pan; parchment paper

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Invert bottom of springform pan (to make it easier to slide shortbread base off bottom), then lock on side of pan and line bottom with a round of parchment paper.
Pulse hazelnuts with sugar in a food processor until nuts are finely chopped. Add flour, butter, cocoa, and salt and pulse just until a dough forms.
Press dough evenly onto bottom of springform pan with your fingers. Prick all over with a fork, then bake until just dry to the touch, about 18 to 20 minutes. Transfer base in pan to a rack to cool completely, about 30 minutes. Remove side of pan and carefully slide out parchment from under shortbread, then reattach side of pan around shortbread base.
Sprinkle gelatin over water in a 1- to 1 1/2-quart heavy saucepan and let stand until softened, about 5 minutes. Heat gelatin mixture over low heat, stirring, just until gelatin is melted, about 2 minutes. Whisk in chocolate hazelnut spread until combined and remove from heat.
Whisk together mascarpone and chocolate hazelnut mixture in a large bowl. Beat together cream, cocoa powder, and sugar in another large bowl with an electric mixer at low speed until just combined, then increase speed to high and beat until cream just holds soft peaks. Whisk one third of whipped cream into mascarpone mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining whipped cream until well combined. Spoon filling onto shortbread base in pan, gently smoothing top, then chill, covered, at least 3 hours.
Bring cream to a simmer in a small heavy saucepan and remove from heat. Add chocolate and let stand 1 minute, then gently whisk until completely melted and smooth. Transfer ganache to a small bowl and cool, stirring occasionally, until slightly thickened but still pourable, about 20 minutes.
Run a warm thin knife around inside of springform pan, then remove side. Slide cake off bottom of pan and transfer to a serving plate. Pour ganache onto top of cake and spread, allowing excess ganache to drip down sides.

Chocolate Snowflakes 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder, preferably Dutch-process
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
About 1 cup confectioners' sugar, for decorating

In electric mixer, beat butter and sugar at high speed until fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add egg, baking soda, and salt and beat at medium speed until blended. Add cocoa powder and mix at low speed until incorporated. Add flour and mix at low speed until just combined. Divide dough in half, form into 2 disks, and wrap in plastic wrap or waxed paper. Chill until firm, at least 1 hour or up to 2 days.
Arrange racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 heavy large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Remove 1 dough disk from refrigerator. On lightly floured work surface, roll out dough to 1/4- to 1/8-inch thickness. Using 3- to 4-inch snowflake cookie cutter, cut out cookies; transfer with spatula to baking sheets. Gather and reroll scraps and cut out additional cookies. Chill cookies 10 minutes.
Bake until somewhat firm to the touch, about 10 minutes. (Do not overbake or cookies will be bitter.) Cool on pans 2 minutes, then transfer to racks and cool completely. Repeat with remaining dough.
To decorate, lay lacy doily on top of cookies and dust with confectioners' sugar.

White Chocolate Cupcakes with Candied Kumquats 
8 ounces high-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), chopped
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup canned unsweetened coconut milk*
3 large egg whites
4 1/2 ounces high-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), chopped
6 ounces (3/4 of 8-ounce package) cream cheese, room temperature
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/4 cup powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
Candied Kumquatsepi:recipelink</epi:recipelink>

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line three 6-cup muffin pans with paper liners. Place white chocolate in metal bowl set over pan of barely simmering water. Stir until melted and smooth.
Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, butter, and vanilla in large bowl until blended. Add hot white chocolate to sugar mixture; stir to combine. Add flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with coconut milk in 2 additions, beating batter just to combine between additions.
Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Gently fold egg white mixture into batter in 3 additions.
Divide batter among muffin cups (about 1/4 cup each). Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)
Stir white chocolate in metal bowl set over saucepan of barely simmering water until melted and smooth. Cool slightly. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, butter, sugar, vanilla, and salt in medium bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in melted white chocolate. Let cool until thickened to spreadable consistency.
Spread frosting over cupcakes. Drain Candied Kumquats; arrange kumquats decoratively atop cupcakes. (Can be assembled 2 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature.)
*Coconut milk is available at many supermarkets and at Indian, Southeast Asian, and Latin markets.

Pistachio, Raspberry, and White Chocolate Biscotti 
3 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
3 large eggs
2 tablespoons canola oil
2 1/2 teaspoons almond extract
3/4 cup shelled raw unsalted natural pistachios
1 cup dried raspberries or chopped dried strawberries (about 5 ounces)
1/2 cup chopped high-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina)
8 ounces high-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina) and/or 8 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line large baking sheet with parchment paper. Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, eggs, oil, and almond extract in large bowl until well blended. Add flour mixture and beat until smooth. Stir in pistachios, dried berries, and 1/2 cup chopped white chocolate. Drop dough by heaping tablespoonfuls in two 12-inch-long strips on prepared baking sheet, spacing strips 3 inches apart. Using wet fingertips, shape each strip into 3-inch-wide log, pressing evenly (logs may look slightly lumpy).
Bake logs until lightly browned and almost firm to touch, about 30 minutes. Cool logs on sheet 30 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Carefully transfer logs to cutting board. Line same baking sheet with parchment paper. Cut each log crosswise into generous 1/2-inch-thick slices. Stand biscotti upright, spacing about 1/4 inch apart, in 3 rows on prepared baking sheet. Bake until pale golden (biscotti may be soft but will firm as they cool), about 20 minutes. Cool completely on baking sheet.
Line another large baking sheet with parchment paper. Place 8 ounces chopped white chocolate in medium glass bowl. Place 8 ounces chopped bittersweet chocolate in another medium glass bowl, if desired. Microwave separately on medium in 20-second intervals just until chocolate is soft to touch, about 40 seconds total (do not overheat or chocolate will burn or seize). Stir chocolate until smooth.
Dip 1 end or 1 side of each biscotti in chocolate; place on baking sheet. Chill until chocolate is set, about 30 minutes. (Can be made ahead. Arrange in single layer in airtight container and chill up to 5 days or freeze up to 2 weeks.)

Semisweet Chocolate Layer Cake with Vanilla Cream Filling 
6 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup all purpose flour
3/4 cup cake flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1 3/4 cups (packed) dark brown sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 large eggs
3/4 cup buttermilk
1 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream, divided
1/4 cup powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup heavy whipping cream
2/3 cup light corn syrup
18 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
Additional powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter three 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms with parchment paper round; butter parchment. Place chocolate in metal bowl set over saucepan of simmering water. Stir until melted and smooth.
Whisk all purpose flour and next 4 ingredients in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat brown sugar, butter, and vanilla in large bowl to blend (mixture will be crumbly). Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in warm melted chocolate. Mix in dry ingredients in 2 additions alternately with buttermilk in 1 addition. Divide batter among prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 23 minutes. Cool cakes in pans 10 minutes. Turn cakes out onto rack; peel off parchment. Cool cakes completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap cakes in plastic and store at room temperature.)
Place 2 tablespoons cold water in small bowl. Sprinkle unflavored gelatin over; let stand 10 minutes to soften.
Bring 1/2 cup cream to boil in heavy small saucepan. Add hot cream mixture to softened gelatin; stir until dissolved. Place in refrigerator just until cold, whisking frequently, about 5 minutes.
Place remaining 1 cup chilled cream, powdered sugar, and vanilla extract in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat until peaks form. Add gelatin mixture and beat until peaks form.
Place 1 cake on 8-inch cardboard round or tart pan bottom. Spread half of filling over. Top with second cake. Spread remaining filling over. Top with third cake. Chill on cardboard round 3 hours.
Bring cream and corn syrup to simmer in heavy small saucepan. Remove from heat. Add chocolate; whisk until smooth. Cool.
Place cake on rack set in large rimmed baking sheet. Spread half of ganache over top and sides of cake. Chill cake 1 hour. Rewarm remaining ganache in small saucepan over low heat just until lukewarm, whisking often. Pour ganache over cold cake, spreading as needed to cover top and sides. Chill until ganache is set, about 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled.)
Cut out paper heart shapes of differing sizes and arrange atop cake. Sift powdered sugar over. Carefully lift hearts from cake. Serve immediately.

Chocolate-Dipped Shortbread 
2 sticks (1/2 pound) unsalted butter, at room temperature
2/3 cup sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
8 ounces high-quality semisweet chocolate, finely chopped

Arrange racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Line 2 large cookie sheets with parchment paper.
In electric mixer, beat butter, sugar, vanilla, and salt at medium speed just until smooth. Add flour and mix at low speed until combined. Divide dough in half and shape into 2 disks.
On lightly floured work surface, roll out 1 piece dough to 1/4-inch-thick rectangle. Using fluted pastry wheel or large knife, cut into 2- by 1-inch rectangles. Transfer cookies to baking sheets, spacing 1 1/2 inches apart. Repeat with remaining dough.
Prick each cookie several times with tines of fork, then chill 10 minutes. Bake until edges are golden, about 15 minutes. Cool on pans 5 minutes, then transfer to racks and cool completely.
To decorate: Line baking sheet with clean parchment or wax paper. In medium heatproof bowl set over saucepan of simmering water, melt half chocolate. Add remaining chocolate, remove bowl from heat, and stir occasionally until smooth. Pour into small bowl.
Dip each cookie halfway into chocolate, let excess drip off, and place on baking sheet. Let stand until chocolate is set, about 1 hour. Store in airtight container at room temperature. (Do not refrigerate.)

Hot Buttered Rum Cheesecakes with Rum-Caramel Sauce 
5 1/2 cups finely ground gingersnap cookies (about 1 3/4 pounds)
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, melted
1/2 cup dark rum
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1 /2 cups sugar
4 large eggs
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/3 cup whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 1/2 cups sour cream
7 tablespoons sugar
1 3/4 teaspoons vanilla extract
Rum-Caramel Sauce

Blend ground cookies and both sugars in processor. Add butter and process to blend. Divide cookie mixture among ten 4 1/2-inch-diameter springform pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides (about 1/2 cup packed per pan). Press crust onto bottoms and up sides of pans.
Position racks in top and bottom thirds of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. Boil rum in small saucepan until reduced to 1/4 cup, about 1 minute. Cool.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl on low speed until smooth. Gradually beat in sugar. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating on low speed just to blend after each addition, occasionally scraping sides of bowl. Beat in spices, then cream, vanilla, and cooled rum just to blend. Divide filling among prepared crusts (about 1 cup per pan).
Place cheesecakes on 2 rimmed baking sheets. Bake until tops appear set, puffed, and golden at edges but still move slightly in center when shaken, reversing sheets after 20 minutes, about 40 minutes total. Cool 5 minutes.
Whisk sour cream, sugar, and vanilla in large bowl. Divide topping among hot cheesecakes, about 1/4 cup each, spreading to meet edges of crusts. Bake 10 minutes. Run knife around each cake to loosen crust from pan. Place hot cheesecakes directly in refrigerator.
Chill uncovered overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover; keep chilled.) Serve with Rum-Caramel Sauce.

Knot Cookies 
3 1/3 cups all-purpose flour plus additional for dusting
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup sour cream
3 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon grated fresh lemon zest
6 cups vegetable oil for frying
1 1/2 cups confectioners sugar
a pasta machine; a deep-fat thermometer

Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt in a small bowl.
Beat together butter and granulated sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes in a stand mixer or 4 minutes with a handheld, then beat in sour cream, eggs, and zest. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture. Mix until just combined. Form into a 2-inch-diameter log.
Set smooth rollers of pasta machine at widest setting. Cut log crosswise into quarters and keep 3 pieces covered with a kitchen towel (not terry cloth). Flatten remaining piece of dough into a rectangle about 1/3 inch thick. Dust with flour. Feed through rollers. Fold in half crosswise and feed through rollers 8 more times, folding in half each time. Dust with flour if sticking.
Turn dial to next (narrower) setting and feed dough through without folding. Continue to feed dough through without folding, making space between rollers narrower each time, until the second to last setting is used.
Cut rolled-out dough into 5- by 2-inch rectangles. Make a 1-inch lengthwise slit in center of each rectangle. Pull one end of strip through slit, forming a loose knot. Transfer to a lightly floured baking sheet.
Heat oil in a 5- to 6-quart heavy pot over moderately high heat until it registers 370 degrees F on thermometer. Fry knots, 4 at a time, turning over once or twice, until golden, about 1 minute per batch. Transfer with a slotted spoon to paper towels to drain.
Turn off heat under oil and roll out and form knots with remaining dough. Return oil to 370 degrees F before frying rest of knots.
Dust cooled cookies with confectioners sugar.

Sugar-Cookie Snowmen 
2 sticks (1/2 pound) unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 large egg
2 2/3 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
Royal Icing
Candies for decorating: mini M&Ms;, black licorice twists, cherry pull-apart shoestring licorice, red cinnamon candies

In electric mixer, beat butter and sugar at medium-high speed until fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add vanilla, baking soda, and salt and beat at medium speed until incorporated. Beat in egg. Add flour and mix at low speed until just combined. Divide dough in half, form into 2 disks, and wrap in plastic wrap or waxed paper. Chill until firm, at least 1 hour or up to 2 days.
Arrange racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Line 2 heavy large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Remove 1 dough disk from refrigerator. On lightly floured work surface, roll out dough to 1/4-inch thickness. Using 5- to 6-inch snowman cookie cutter, cut out cookies; transfer with spatula to baking sheets. Gather and reroll scraps and cut out additional cookies. Chill cookies 10 minutes.
Bake until golden and somewhat firm to touch, about 15 minutes. Cool on pans 5 minutes, then transfer to racks and cool completely. Repeat with remaining dough.
To decorate cookies: Transfer royal icing to pastry bag fitted with #3 or #4 plain round tip. (Alternatively, place icing in sturdy plastic bag and snip off tiny hole from one corner.) Pipe outline around edge of cookie, then make dots for eyes, nose, and mouth and place mini M&M; on each. Pipe 3 lines across hat area, cut black licorice to fit, and place to make hat. Pipe 3 dots for buttons and place cinnamon candy on each. Pipe horizontally across neck and cut and fit red licorice in place for scarf.
Let icing dry completely (about 1 hour, depending on humidity). Wrap cookies individually in cellophane bags tied with ribbon.

Granola Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup packed light brown sugar
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1 large egg
1 cup granola (chop clusters if large)
3/4 cup semisweet chocolate chips (4 1/2 ounces)

Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt in a small bowl. Beat together butter, sugars, and vanilla in a medium bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes, then beat in egg until combined well. Reduce speed to low, then add flour mixture and mix until just combined. Stir in granola and chocolate chips.
Drop 18 mounds (about 2 level tablespoons per mound) of batter about 2 inches apart onto 2 ungreased large baking sheets, then pat each mound into a 2 1/2-inch round.
Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until pale golden, about 13 minutes. Cool on sheets 1 minute, then transfer to racks to cool completely.

Blueberry Lemon Crumbles 
1 cup sliced almonds with skins
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh lemon zest
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2 large egg yolks
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1/3 cup dried blueberries
1/2 cup blueberry preserves
a nonstick mini-muffin pan with 24 (1/8-cup) cups (or 2 pans with 12 cups each)

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Toast almonds in 1 layer in a shallow baking pan, stirring once, until golden, 3 to 5 minutes. Cool completely in pan on a rack. Leave oven on.
Pulse flour, sugars, 1 teaspoon zest, cinnamon, and salt in a food processor until combined, then add butter and pulse until mixture resembles a coarse meal. Add yolks and vanilla and process until mixture begins to come together in clumps.
Transfer 1 1/3 cups packed dough to a bowl and stir in almonds (some almonds will break) for almond crumble topping. Gather remaining dough into a ball.
Generously butter bottoms, sides, and top of muffin pan. Press 1 tablespoon dough into bottom and up side of each muffin cup. Chill until dough is firm, about 15 minutes.
Stir remaining teaspoon zest, lemon juice (2 teaspoons), and dried blueberries into preserves in a small bowl. Spoon a rounded 1/2 teaspoon preserves mixture onto dough in each muffin cup. Crumble 1 rounded teaspoon almond topping evenly into each cup.
Bake until topping is deep golden brown and filling is bubbling, about 20 to 25 minutes. Cool completely in muffin pan on a rack. Loosen edges of crumbles carefully with a small offset spatula or sharp knife, then carefully remove from pan.

Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 cup vegetable shortening (preferably trans-fat-free) plus additional for greasing baking sheets
2 cups plus 2 tablespoons brown-rice flour mix
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon xanthan gum
1 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup packed brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla
12 ounces semisweet chocolate chips
1 cup finely chopped walnuts (optional)

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Lightly grease 2 large baking sheets.
Whisk together flour mix, baking soda, salt, and xanthan gum in a small bowl.
Beat together shortening (1 cup) and sugars in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until pale and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla. Reduce speed to low and mix in flour mixture until just incorporated, then stir in chips and walnuts if using.
Drop heaping teaspoons of dough 2 inches apart onto baking sheets.
Bake, 1 sheet at a time, until golden, 9 to 15 minutes. Let stand 1 minute, then transfer cookies to a rack to cool and continue making cookies using cooled baking sheets.

Chocolate-Pecan Sheet Cake 
1 1/2 cups sugar, divided
6 tablespoons plus 1/2 cup (1 3/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/3 cup whole milk
1 1/2 cups semisweet chocolate chips (about 9 ounces)
4 large eggs
1 1/2 cups chocolate-flavored syrup
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup all purpose flour
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup pecan pieces, toasted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13x9x2-inch metal baking pan. Bring 1/2 cup sugar, 6 tablespoons butter, and milk to boil in saucepan, whisking until sugar dissolves. Remove from heat. Add chips; whisk until frosting is smooth.
Beat remaining 1 cup sugar and 1/2 cup butter in large bowl to blend. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then chocolate syrup and vanilla. Sift flour, cocoa, baking powder, and salt over; beat to blend. Mix in pecans. Spread batter in prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs attached, about 45 minutes. Cool cake in pan. Spread frosting over cake. (Cake can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and store at room temperature.)

Mini Black-and-White Cookies 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup well-shaken buttermilk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
7 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg
2 3/4 cups confectioners sugar
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
4 to 6 tablespoons water
1/4 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
a small offset spatula

Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 large baking sheets.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt in a bowl. Stir together buttermilk and vanilla in a cup.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes, then add egg, beating until combined well. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture and buttermilk mixture alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture, and mixing just until smooth.
Drop rounded teaspoons of batter 1 inch apart onto baking sheets. Bake, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until tops are puffed, edges are pale golden, and cookies spring back when touched, 6 to 8 minutes total. Transfer to a rack to cool.
Stir together confectioners sugar, corn syrup, lemon juice, vanilla, and 2 tablespoons water in a small bowl until smooth. If icing is not easily spreadable, add more water, 1/2 teaspoon at a time. Transfer half of icing to another bowl and stir in cocoa, adding more water, 1/2 teaspoon at a time, to thin to same consistency as vanilla icing. Cover surface with a dampened paper towel, then cover bowl with plastic wrap.
With offset spatula, spread white icing over half of flat side of each cookie. Starting with cookies you iced first, spread chocolate icing over other half.

Pear-Gingerbread Upside-Down Cake 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar, divided
3 Anjou pears, peeled, halved, cored, cut crosswise into 1/3-inch-thick slices
2/3 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
2 large eggs
3/4 cup ginger preserves (such as Robertson's)
1 1/2 cups self-rising flour
1 tablespoon pumpkin pie spice

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 9x9x2-inch nonstick baking pan. Melt butter in medium saucepan over medium heat. Transfer 1/3 cup butter to small bowl. Whisk 1/2 cup sugar into remaining butter in saucepan until blended (mixture may be grainy). Spread butter-sugar mixture in prepared pan; slightly overlap enough pear slices to cover mixture. Dice enough remaining pear to yield 1 cup.
Using electric mixer, beat molasses, reserved 1/3 cup butter, and 1/2 cup sugar in large bowl to blend. Beat in eggs, then preserves. Beat in flour and pumpkin pie spice; stir in diced pears. Spread batter over pears in pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Cool 5 minutes. Invert cake onto platter; cool slightly. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Chocolate Espresso Spelt Cake 
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened, plus additional for pan
3/4 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder plus additional for dusting pan and cake
1 cup boiling-hot water
1 1/2 tablespoons instant-espresso powder
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 lb Medjool dates (12 to 14), pitted and coarsely chopped (1 1/2 cups)
2 cups spelt flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup packed dark brown sugar
2 large eggs
Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream
a 9-inch springform pan

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter springform pan, then lightly dust with cocoa powder, knocking out excess.
Stir together boiling-hot water, espresso powder, vanilla, and baking soda in a bowl, then add dates, mashing lightly with a fork, and steep until liquid cools to room temperature, about 10 minutes.
Whisk together spelt flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, and salt in another bowl. Beat together butter and brown sugar with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until just combined. Beat in date mixture (batter will look curdled), then reduce speed to low and add flour mixture, mixing until just combined.
Spoon batter into springform pan, smoothing top, and bake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted into center comes out clean, about 50 minutes to 1 hour. Cool cake in pan on a rack 5 minutes, then remove side of pan and cool cake on rack. Serve cake warm or at room temperature.

Grasshopper Squares 
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter
10 1/2 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not extra-bitter or unsweetened and no more than 60% cacao if marked), finely chopped
1 1/2 cups packed light brown sugar
3 large eggs, lightly beaten
1 1/4 teaspoons vanilla
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup heavy cream
10 oz fine-quality white chocolate, chopped
2 tablespoons green crème de menthe
1 teaspoon peppermint extract
1 cup heavy cream
10 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), finely chopped
an offset spatula

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Lightly butter a 13- by 9-inch baking pan and line with 2 crisscrossed sheets of foil, leaving a 2 inch overhang on all sides. Butter foil.
Melt butter and chocolate with brown sugar in a 3-quart heavy saucepan over moderate heat, stirring occasionally, until smooth. Remove from heat. Whisk in eggs and vanilla until combined. Whisk in flour, cocoa, and salt until just combined.
Spread batter evenly in baking pan and bake until set and a wooden pick inserted in center comes out with moist crumbs adhering, about 20 minutes. Cool completely in pan on a rack, about 1 1/2 hours.
Bring cream to a simmer in a 2- to 3-quart saucepan and remove from heat. Pour over white chocolate in a bowl. Let stand 1 minute, then whisk until smooth. Stir in crème de menthe and extract and chill, covered, stirring occasionally, until thick, about 1 hour.
Bring cream to a simmer in a 2- to 3-quart saucepan and remove from heat. Pour over bittersweet chocolate in a bowl. Let stand 1 minute, then whisk until smooth. Chill, covered, stirring occasionally, until thick, about 30 minutes.
Spread mint ganache over top of cooled brownie in a thin even layer using offset spatula, then chill until firm but still slightly sticky, about 30 minutes.
Spread chocolate ganache over mint and chill until firm, about 2 hours.
Lift dessert out of pan using foil overhang. Run a heavy knife under hot water and wipe dry, then trim edges of dessert (1/4 inch off each side). Cut dessert into squares and peel from foil.

Coffee Fruitcake 
3 1/2 cups plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground cloves
1 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1 lb dried currants (3 1/3 cups)
1 lb raisins (3 cups)
1 cup lukewarm strong coffee
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2 cups packed light brown sugar
4 large eggs
1 cup molasses (not robust or blackstrap)
2 (9- by 5- by 3-inch) loaf pans

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 250 degrees F. Brush loaf pans lightly with oil, then line bottom and sides with foil, pressing corners to help adhere.
Sift together flour, cinnamon, salt, cloves, and nutmeg into a large bowl.
Toss currants and raisins with 2 tablespoons flour mixture in a bowl. Stir together coffee and baking soda in a small bowl until dissolved.
Beat together with butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until light and fluffy, 5 to 7 minutes. Add eggs, 2 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in molasses. Reduce speed to low, then add flour mixture and coffee mixture alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing until just smooth. Fold in dried fruit mixture.
Divide batter between loaf pans and smooth tops by gently rapping bottom of each pan against counter.
Bake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center of each cake comes out clean, 2 3/4 to 3 1/4 hours (cakes may sink slightly in center). Cool pans on racks 10 minutes, then loosen foil from sides of pans with knife and turn out cakes onto racks. Peel off foil and cool cakes completely, about 3 hours.

Microwave Chocolate-Cinnamon Pudding Cakes 
4 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened)
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1/4 cup packed dark brown sugar
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
3/4 cup heavy cream
2 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon, plus additional for garnish
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
Pinch of salt
Small pinch of ground cloves
2 teaspoons confectioner's sugar, or to taste

Butter four 8-ounce ramekins. In food processor, finely grind chocolate. Add butter and sugar and process until thoroughly combined. Add flour, 1/4 cup of heavy cream, eggs, vanilla, cinnamon, baking powder, salt, and cloves, and process until smooth.
Divide mixture evenly among ramekins and cover tightly with plastic wrap. (Batter can be made ahead and regfrigerated in ramekins, covered with plastic wrap, up to 6 hours.)
Leaving plastic wrap in place, microwave ramekins on high for 1 minute 20 seconds. Remove from microwave and pierce plastic wrap with tip of sharp knife. Cover each ramekin with heavy plate and let stand, steaming, 7 minutes.
While cakes are steaming, beat remaining 1/2 cup cream in large bowl until foamy and slightly opaque. Add confectioner's sugar and beat until soft peaks form.
Remove plate and plastic wrap from each ramekin. Invert each cake onto individual serving plate and unmold. Top each with dollop of whipped cream, sprinkle with additional cinnamon, and serve.

Dark Chocolate and Lime Souffles 
2/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons grated lime peel
10 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
5 large eggs, separated, room temperature
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1 1/2 tablespoons fresh lime juice

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Place six 3/4-cup soufflé dishes on baking sheet. Mash sugar and lime peel in small bowl. Stir chopped chocolate in medium bowl set over saucepan of simmering water until melted. Remove from over water; whisk in yolks, 2 tablespoons lime-sugar, and salt (mixture will become thick). Beat egg whites in large bowl to soft peaks; add 2 tablespoons lime-sugar and beat until stiff but not dry. Whisk 1/3 of whites into chocolate mixture to lighten; fold in remaining whites in 2 additions. Fold in chocolate chips. Fill dishes with soufflé mixture, dividing equally. Bake until softly set and puffed, about 14 minutes.
Meanwhile, whip cream, lime juice, and 4 tablespoons lime-sugar to firm peaks in medium bowl.
Top soufflés with cream. Sprinkle with more lime-sugar.

Sugar Cookies 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
Garnish:decorating icing (optional); food coloring (optional)
3- to 4-inch holiday cookie cutters; several small heavy-duty sealable plastic bags (not pleated) if icing cookies

Whisk together flour and salt in a small bowl.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes in a stand mixer or 6 minutes with a handheld. Beat in egg and vanilla. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture, mixing until just combined.
Form dough into 2 balls and flatten each into a 6-inch disk. Chill disks, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, at least 1 hour.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Roll out 1 disk of dough (keep remaining dough chilled) into an 8 1/2-inch round (1/4 inch thick) on a well-floured surface with a well-floured rolling pin. (If dough becomes too soft to roll out, rewrap in plastic and chill until firm.) Cut out as many cookies as possible from dough with cutters and transfer to 2 ungreased large baking sheets, arranging cookies about 1 inch apart.
Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until edges are golden, 10 to 12 minutes, then transfer to racks to cool completely.
Meanwhile, gather scraps and chill until dough is firm enough to reroll, 10 to 15 minutes. Make more cookies with remaining dough and scraps (reroll scraps only once) and bake on cooled baking sheets.
If using icing and coloring it, transfer 1/4 cup icing to a small bowl for each color and tint with food coloring. Spoon each color icing into a sealable bag, pressing out excess air, and snip a 1/8-inch opening in 1 bottom corner of bag. Twisting bag firmly just above icing, decoratively pipe icing onto cookies. Let icing dry completely (about 1 hour) before storing cookies.

Pumpkin Spice Bundt Cake with Buttermilk Icing 
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened, plus additional for greasing bundt pan
1 additional butter for greasing bundt pan
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour plus additional for dusting pan
1 additional flour for dusting pan
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups canned solid-pack pumpkin (from a 15-ounce can; not pie filling)
3/4 cup well-shaken buttermilk
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/4 cups granulated sugar
3 large eggs
2 tablespoons plus 2 teaspoons well-shaken buttermilk
1 1/2 cups confectioners sugar
a 10-inch nonstick bundt pan (3 quart)

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter bundt pan generously, then dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Whisk together flour (2 1/4 cups), baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, allspice, and salt in a bowl. Whisk together pumpkin, 3/4 cup buttermilk, and vanilla in another bowl.
Beat butter (1 1/2 sticks) and granulated sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, 3 to 5 minutes, then add eggs and beat 1 minute. Reduce speed to low and add flour and pumpkin mixtures alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing until batter is just smooth.
Spoon batter into pan, smoothing top, then bake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center of cake comes out clean, 45 to 50 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 15 minutes, then invert rack over cake and reinvert cake onto rack. Cool 10 minutes more.
While cake is cooling, whisk together buttermilk and confectioners sugar until smooth. Drizzle icing over warm cake, then cool cake completely. Icing will harden slightly.

Spoon Cookies 
2 sticks (1 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into pieces
3/4 cup sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 teaspoon salt, slightly rounded
1/3 cup fruit preserves (your choice)
a deep-bowled teaspoon (not a measuring spoon)

Fill kitchen sink with about 2 inches of cold water. Melt butter in a 2- to 3-quart heavy saucepan over moderate heat and cook, stirring occasionally, until butter turns golden with a nutlike fragrance and flecks on bottom of pan turn a rich caramel brown, 10 to 12 minutes. (Butter will initially foam, then dissipate. A thicker foam will appear and cover the surface just before butter begins to brown; stir more frequently toward end of cooking.) Place pan in sink to stop cooking, then cool, stirring frequently, until butter starts to look opaque, about 4 minutes. Remove pan from sink and stir in sugar and vanilla.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt in a small bowl and stir into butter mixture until a dough forms. Shape into a ball, wrap with plastic wrap, and let stand at cool room temperature 1 to 2 hours (to allow flavors to develop).
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 325 degrees F.
Press a piece of dough into bowl of teaspoon, flattening top, then slide out and place, flat side down, on an ungreased baking sheet. (Dough will feel crumbly, but will become cohesive when pressed.) Continue forming cookies and arranging on sheet. Bake cookies until just pale golden, 8 to 15 minutes. Cool cookies on sheet on a rack 5 minutes, then transfer cookies to rack and cool completely, about 30 minutes.
While cookies cool, heat preserves in a small saucepan over low heat until just runny, then pour through a sieve into a small bowl, pressing hard on solids, and cool completely.
Spread the flat side of a cookie with a thin layer of preserves. Sandwich with flat side of another cookie. Continue with remaining cookies and preserves, then let stand until set, about 45 minutes. Transfer cookies to an airtight container and wait 2 days before eating.

Cranberry Walnut Upside Down Cake 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1 3/4 cups fresh or frozen cranberries (7 ounces; do not thaw if frozen)
3/4 cup coarsely chopped walnuts (3 ounces), toasted
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
3/4 cup well-shaken buttermilk
Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream
a well-seasoned 10-inch cast-iron skillet

Melt butter in skillet over moderate heat, then swirl to coat bottom and side of skillet and stir in brown sugar. Simmer, stirring, until sugar is dissolved, 1 to 2 minutes, then sprinkle cranberries and walnuts evenly over butter mixture and remove from heat.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until light and fluffy, 4 to 6 minutes. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture alternately in batches with buttermilk, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing until just combined. (Do not overmix.)
Heat topping in skillet over moderately high heat until it starts to bubble, then gently spoon batter over topping and spread evenly. Quickly transfer to oven; bake until cake is golden brown and a wooden skewer comes out clean, 25 to 30 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 15 minutes. Run a thin knife around inside edge of pan, then invert a serving plate over pan and invert cake onto plate. Cool completely on plate on rack, 1 hour. Serve cake at room temperature.

Lemon Layer Cake 
1 cup canola oil, plus additional for greasing cake pans
2 1/2 cups brown-rice flour mix
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 teaspoon xanthan gum
1 cup milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 tablespoon finely grated fresh lemon zest
2 cups granulated sugar
4 large eggs
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh lemon zest
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons granulated sugar
3 large egg yolks
1/4 teaspoon guar gum
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, cut into tablespoon pieces
1/4 teaspoon lemon extract
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3 1/2 cups confectioners sugar
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh lemon zest
2 (9- by 2-inch) round cake pans

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Brush cake pans with canola oil. Line bottom of each pan with a round of parchment or wax paper, then oil paper.
Whisk together flour mix, salt, baking powder, and xanthan gum until combined well. Stir together milk, canola oil (1 cup), vanilla, and zest in another bowl.
Beat together sugar and eggs in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed just until combined, about 1 minute. Reduce speed to low and add flour and milk mixtures alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing until just combined.
Divide batter evenly between cake pans, smoothing tops, and bake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center of each cake layer comes out clean, 35 to 40 minutes.
Cool cake layers in pans on racks 10 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge of 1 cake layer and invert rack over cake pan, then invert cake onto rack. Repeat with second layer. Peel off paper and cool layers completely.
Whisk together zest, lemon juice, sugar, yolks, a pinch of salt, and guar gum in a 1-quart heavy saucepan. Add butter and cook over moderately low heat, whisking constantly, until curd is thick enough to hold marks of whisk and first bubbles appear on surface, about 5 minutes. Whisk in extract. Immediately pour curd into a bowl, then cover surface with wax paper and chill until cold, about 30 minutes.
Beat butter with an electric mixer at high speed until light and fluffy, about 1 minute. Reduce speed to low and add confectioners sugar, lemon juice, extract, and zest, then mix until creamy and smooth, about 2 minutes.
Halve each cake layer horizontally using a long serrated knife. Spread bottom half of each cake layer with half of lemon curd, then top with remaining cake layers to form two sandwiched cakes. Put 1 sandwiched cake on a cake stand or platter and spread a heaping 1/2 cup frosting over top, then cover with remaining sandwiched cake. Frost top and sides of cake with remaining frosting.

Hazelnut Panforte 
1 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked, coarsely chopped
1 cup pecan halves, toasted, coarsely chopped
3/4 cup pitted Medjool dates, coarsely chopped
1/2 cup coarsely chopped candied orange peel
1/2 cup dried tart cherries
1/2 cup all purpose flour
1/4 cup stemmed dried Mission figs, coarsely chopped
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon finely grated orange peel
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground coriander
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
Pinch of ground white pepper
3/4 cup honey
3/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) butter
1 9-inch-diameter cardboard cake round

Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 300 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Line bottom and sides with parchment paper; butter paper.
Mix first 16 ingredients in large bowl, tossing to separate fruit pieces. Bring honey, sugar, and butter to boil in small saucepan, stirring frequently. Reduce heat to medium-low. Place candy thermometer in mixture, tilting to submerge bulb, and cook until thermometer registers 242 degrees F to 248 degrees F, stirring occasionally, about 9 minutes. Pour syrup over nut mixture; stir to blend. Immediately transfer mixture to prepared pan; smooth top. Bake until bubbling slightly at edges and top appears dry, about 55 minutes. Cool completely in pan on rack. Cover; let stand overnight at room temperature.
Release pan sides. Remove paper from sides and bottom of panforte. Place panforte on cardboard round. (Can be made 3 weeks ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Seven-Layer Cookies 
4 large eggs, separated
1 cup sugar
1 (8-oz) can almond paste
2 1/2 sticks (1 1/4 cups) unsalted butter, softened
1 teaspoon almond extract
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
25 drops red food coloring
25 drops green food coloring
1 (12-oz) jar apricot preserves, heated and strained
7 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
a heavy-duty stand mixer; a small offset spatula

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 13- by 9-inch baking pan and line bottom with wax paper, leaving a 2-inch overhang on 2 ends, then butter paper.
Beat whites in mixer fitted with whisk attachment at medium-high speed until they just hold stiff peaks. Add 1/4 cup sugar a little at a time, beating at high speed until whites hold stiff, slightly glossy peaks. Transfer to another bowl.
Switch to paddle attachment, then beat together almond paste and remaining 3/4 cup sugar until well blended, about 3 minutes. Add butter and beat until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add yolks and almond extract and beat until combined well, about 2 minutes. Reduce speed to low, then add flour and salt and mix until just combined.
Fold half of egg white mixture into almond mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Divide batter among 3 bowls. Stir red food coloring into one and green food coloring into another, leaving the third batch plain. Set white batter aside. Chill green batter, covered. Pour red batter into prepared pan and spread evenly with offset spatula (layer will be about 1/4 inch thick).
Bake red layer 8 to 10 minutes, until just set. (It is important to undercook.)
Using paper overhang, transfer layer to a rack to cool, about 15 minutes. Clean pan, then line with wax paper and butter paper in same manner as above. Bake white layer in prepared pan until just set. As white layer bakes, bring green batter to room temperature. Transfer white layer to a rack. Prepare pan as above, then bake green layer in same manner as before. Transfer to a rack to cool.
When all layers are cool, invert green onto a wax-paper-lined large baking sheet. Discard paper from layer and spread with half of preserves. Invert white on top of green layer, discarding paper. Spread with remaining preserves. Invert red layer on top of white layer and discard wax paper.
Cover with plastic wrap and weight with a large baking pan. Chill at least 8 hours.
Remove weight and plastic wrap. Bring layers to room temperature. Melt chocolate in a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water, stirring until smooth. Remove from heat. Keep chocolate over water.
Trim edges of assembled layers with a long serrated knife. Quickly spread half of chocolate in a thin layer on top of cake. Chill, uncovered, until chocolate is firm, about 15 minutes. Cover with another sheet of wax paper and place another baking sheet on top, then invert cake onto sheet and remove paper. Quickly spread with remaining chocolate. Chill until firm, about 30 minutes.
Cut lengthwise into 4 strips. Cut strips crosswise into 3/4-inch-wide cookies.

Mini Fudgey Chocolate Cakes 
4 ounces semisweet baking chocolate
4 tablespoons butter
1 large egg
1/3 cup sugar
Pinch of salt
1 tablespoon flour

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Melt the chocolate and butter together in a small saucepan.
Whisk the egg, sugar, and salt together until yellow and light. Fold in the melted chocolate batter. Mix in the flour until fully incorporated.
Lightly butter the cupcake tins. Pour the batter into the tins and bake for about about 12 minutes, just until the tops crack.
Remove the cakes from the oven. Using oven mitts, place aluminum foil on the top of the cupcake tins and seal on all sides. Turn over onto a flat surface and bang the bottom of the cupcake tins. Remove the cupcake tins to leave the cakes upside down on the aluminum foil. Carefully turn right side up and place on the plate. Serve immediately.

Spiced Nectarine Cake 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar
2 large eggs
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 1/2 teaspoons finely grated lemon peel
1 1/4 cups self-rising flour
5 medium nectarines (about 1 3/4 pounds), halved, each half cut into 4 slices
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Using electric mixer, beat 1/2 cup butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add 3/4 cup sugar and beat until blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then lemon juice and lemon peel. Beat in flour until smooth. Spread batter evenly in prepared pan.
Arrange enough nectarine slices atop batter in concentric circles to cover completely; press lightly to adhere. Mix cinnamon and remaining 3 tablespoons sugar in small bowl. Sprinkle over cake.
Bake until cake is golden brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour (50 minutes for plums or pluots). Cut around cake to loosen; remove pan sides. Serve cake slightly warm or at room temperature.

Summer Berry Shortcakes with Tangy Lemon Cream 
1 lb fresh strawberries, cored and halved
2 containers (5.6 oz each) fresh blackberries
2 containers (4.4 oz each) fresh blueberries
1 container (6 oz) fresh raspberries
1/3 cup sugar
2 tbsp chopped fresh mint
2 tbsp fresh lemon juice
1 cup fat-free sour cream
3 tbsp sugar
2 tsp grated lemon zest
2 1/3 cups all-purpose flour
2 tbsp sugar
1 tsp baking powder
1/2 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp salt
1/8 tsp ground nutmeg
5 oz unsalted butter,cut into very small pieces and chilled
1 cup plus 2 tbsp lowfat buttermilk

Combine berries in a bowl. Add sugar, mint and lemon juice; toss well and chill, tossing occasionally, 4 hours or overnight. For lemon cream: Combine sour cream, sugar and lemon zest in a bowl; mix well. Chill at least 1 hour.
Heat oven to 400 degrees . Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or coat with cooking spray. Whisk flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda, salt and nutmeg in a bowl until well blended. Using a pastry blender or 2 knives, cut butter pieces into flour mixture until it resembles coarse crumbs. With a rubber spatula, stir in 1 cup plus 1 tbsp buttermilk until just moistened and dough begins to form (it will be sticky at this point). With lightly floured hands, gently knead dough 3 or 4 times until it holds together. On a lightly floured surface, gently roll dough with a rolling pin into an 8 1/2-inch circle about 1/2 inch thick. With a floured 2 1/2-inch biscuit cutter, cut out 8 circles from dough and transfer to baking sheet. Discard dough scraps. Brush top of each shortcake with remaining 1 tbsp buttermilk. Bake until shortcakes rise and turn lightly golden, 16 to 18 minutes.
Cut each shortcake in half crosswise. Place the bottom on a plate and top with 3/4 cup berry mixture and 2 tbsp lemon cream. Cover with top half of shortcake. Serve immediately.

Chocolate Mink 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces, plus additional for greasing bowls or ramekins
3 1/2 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), finely chopped
1 large egg, separated
1 tablespoon sugar
Accompaniment: coffee ice cream
2 (5- to 6-oz) ovenproof glass or ceramic bowls or ramekins

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter bowls or ramekins.
Melt chocolate and butter in a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water, stirring until smooth. Remove bowl from heat and cool, stirring occasionally, 5 minutes. Whisk in egg yolk and a pinch of salt until combined.
Beat egg white in a bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until it holds soft peaks. Gradually add sugar, beating, and continue to beat until white just holds stiff, glossy peaks.
Whisk about one fourth of white into chocolate mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining white gently but thoroughly.
Divide batter between bowls or ramekins. Cover each bowl with a small square of foil and crimp foil tightly around rim. Put bowls in a baking dish, then add enough boiling-hot water to reach halfway up side of bowls, making sure that foil is above water. Bake until puddings are just set, about 30 minutes. (Puddings will be gooey to the touch.) Transfer bowls to a rack and cool puddings, uncovered, about 1 hour.
Just before serving, unmold puddings into serving bowls.

Elvis Presley's Favorite Pound Cake 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened, plus additional for buttering pan
3 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring) plus additional for dusting
3/4 teaspoon salt
3 cups sugar
7 large eggs, at room temperature 30 minutes
2 teaspoons vanilla
1 cup heavy cream
a 10-inch tube pan (4 1/2 inches deep; not with a removable bottom) or a 10-inch bundt pan (3 1/4 inches deep; 3-qt capacity)

Put oven rack in middle position, but do not preheat oven.
Generously butter pan and dust with flour, knocking out excess flour.
Sift together sifted flour (3 cups) and salt into a bowl. Repeat sifting into another bowl (flour will have been sifted 3 times total).
Beat together butter (2 sticks) and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes in a stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment or 6 to 8 minutes with a handheld mixer. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in vanilla. Reduce speed to low and add half of flour, then all of cream, then remaining flour, mixing well after each addition. Scrape down side of bowl, then beat at medium-high speed 5 minutes. Batter will become creamier and satiny.
Spoon batter into pan and rap pan against work surface once or twice to eliminate air bubbles. Place pan in (cold) oven and turn oven temperature to 350 degrees F. Bake until golden and a wooden pick or skewer inserted in middle of cake comes out with a few crumbs adhering, 1 to 1 1/4 hours. Cool cake in pan on a rack 30 minutes. Run a thin knife around inner and outer edges of cake, then invert rack over pan and invert cake onto rack to cool completely.

Chris Gargone's Chocolate Chews 
8 ounces semisweet chocolate
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter
3 eggs
1 1/4 cups sugar
2/3 cups bleached all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups (about 9 ounces) chocolate chips
1 1/2 cups (about 6 ounces) chopped walnuts
1 1/2 cups (about 6 ounces) chopped pecans
Three cookie sheets lined with parchment or foil

1. Set racks at the upper and lower thirds of the oven and preheat to 325 degrees F.
2. Place the chocolates and butter in a bowl or the top of a double boiler and place over hot, not simmering, water. Stir occasionally until the chocolate and butter have melted. Cool.
3. In a bowl, whisk the eggs and sugar until lightened. Whisk in the chocolate mixture and vanilla.
4. Combine the flour, baking powder, and salt. Stir into the chocolate mixture. Stir in the chocolate chips and nuts.
5. Drop tablespoon-size cookies onto the prepared pans. Bake for 12 to 15 minutes, until the cookies are slightly firm and cracked.
6. Cool in the pans.
Chews are so rich, they are best on their own. Or try making them half size and serving them with ice cream for a really rich treat.
Keep chews at room temperature in a tin or tight-lidded plastic container, or freeze them, packed between sheets of wax paper, for longer storage.

Five-Spice Cones 
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/3 cup confectioners sugar
1 1/4 teaspoons Chinese five-spice powder
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup whole milk
1 large egg
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, plus additional for buttering pizzelle maker
an electric pizzelle maker; a 5 1/2-inch cone-shaped pizzelle mold

Whisk together all ingredients except additional butter in a bowl until smooth. Chill batter, covered, 1 hour.
Heat pizzelle maker and lightly brush top and bottom of pizzelle molds with butter. Pour 1 tablespoon batter into bottom of each pizzelle mold. Close cover and cook batter until golden, about 2 minutes.
Working quickly (pizzelle are pliable only while hot), peel off 1 pizzelle and wrap around cone mold, overlapping ends, and pinching tip closed. Hold cone in place until it hardens, about 5 seconds, then slip off mold and repeat with remaining pizzelle. Make more pizzelle and cones in same manner.

Blueberry Pudding Cake 
1/3 cup plus 1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup water
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon cornstarch
10 oz blueberries (2 cups)
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 3/4 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 large egg
1/2 cup whole milk
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled slightly
1 teaspoon vanilla

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter a 9-inch square baking pan.
Stir together 1/3 cup sugar with water, lemon juice, and cornstarch in a small saucepan, then stir in blueberries. Bring to a simmer, then simmer, stirring occasionally, 3 minutes. Remove from heat.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, salt, and remaining 1/2 cup sugar in a medium bowl.
Whisk together egg, milk, butter, and vanilla in a large bowl, then add flour mixture, whisking until just combined.
Spoon batter into baking pan, spreading evenly, then pour blueberry mixture evenly over batter (berries will sink). Bake until a knife inserted into center of cake portion comes out clean, 25 to 30 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 5 minutes.

My Kind of Chocolate Birthday Cake 
4 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/3 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 teaspoon grated orange peel
1/2 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon all purpose flour
1/2 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked, chopped
5 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped
3 ounces high-quality milk chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), chopped
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy whipping cream, divided
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup heavy whipping cream
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
4 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate
chopped 1 tablespoon unsalted butter, room temperature
Large chocolate shards or curls (from 1- to 2-inch-thick 8-ounce piece bittersweet or semisweet chocolate)
Additional toasted husked hazelnuts
Candied orange peel strips

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line 13x9x1-inch baking sheet with parchment paper; butter parchment. Combine first 4 ingredients in medium metal bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of barely simmering water; stir until chocolate and butter melt. Remove bowl from over water; stir in salt (mixture will be grainy).
Beat eggs and 2 tablespoons sugar in another medium bowl until pale, about 6 minutes; fold into chocolate mixture. Fold in flour, then hazelnuts. Spread batter evenly on baking sheet. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out with a few moist crumbs attached, about 13 minutes (cake will be thin). Transfer pan to rack. Cool cake completely.
Combine chocolates in medium metal bowl. Bring 1 cup cream to simmer in small saucepan; pour cream over chocolates and let stand 1 minute. Stir until melted and smooth. Chill mixture until firm, about 2 hours.
Place bowl with chilled chocolate mixture over saucepan of barely simmering water until mixture is partially melted (do not stir), about 5 minutes. Remove bowl from over water; add butter to bowl. Using electric mixer, beat until filling is thick and glossy, about 3 minutes. Using clean dry beaters, beat 1/2 cup chilled whipping cream in another medium bowl until peaks form. Fold whipped cream into filling.
Cover 14x5-inch cardboard rectangle with foil. Invert cake onto work surface; remove parchment. Cut cake lengthwise in half. Place 1 cake half on foil-covered cardboard. Spread 1/2 cup chocolate filling over. Top with second cake half. Spoon remaining filling into pastry bag fitted with large plain round tip. Pipe filling atop cake in side-by-side lengthwise rows, then smooth top. Chill until filling is firm, about 1 hour.
Bring cream and corn syrup to simmer in small saucepan. Remove from heat. Add chocolate; let stand 5 minutes. Stir until smooth. Add butter; stir until melted. Let stand until barely lukewarm but still pourable, about 20 minutes.
Place cardboard base with cake on rack set over rimmed baking sheet. Spoon glaze over top of cake, allowing glaze to run down sides. Using offset spatula, smooth glaze over sides. Mound chocolate shards or curls over top and sides of cake. Garnish with hazelnuts and candied orange peel. Refrigerate until glaze is set, at least 2 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep chilled.)

Persian Love Cake 
2 large egg whites
1/2 cup sugar
Petals from 2 organic roses
1 cup cake flour
14 tablespoons baker's sugar or superfine sugar, divided
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
3 large eggs, separated
6 tablespoons water
1/4 cup canola oil
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1/4 teaspoon whole cardamom seeds (removed from about 5 green cardamom pods)
2 1/2 cups chilled heavy whipping cream, divided
Pinch of saffron threads
2/3 cup powdered sugar
1 teaspoon rose water
2 tablespoons natural unsalted pistachios

Whisk egg whites in small bowl until foamy. Using pastry brush, brush rose petals on both sides with egg whites; sprinkle on both sides with sugar. Dry on nonstick rack at least 6 hours or overnight.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter two 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line pan bottoms with parchment paper; butter parchment. Sift flour, 7 tablespoons baker's sugar, baking powder, and salt into large bowl. Whisk yolks and next 4 ingredients in small bowl until smooth. Add yolk mixture to dry ingredients; whisk until smooth. Beat egg whites in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 7 tablespoons baker's sugar; beat until whites resemble thick marshmallow fluff. Fold whites into batter in 3 additions. Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake until cakes are golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool in pans on racks 15 minutes. Turn out onto racks, peel off parchment, and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap and store at room temperature.)
Combine 1/2 cup cream and saffron in small saucepan. Bring to simmer. Remove from heat; let steep 20 minutes. Chill until cold.
Beat remaining 2 cups cream, powdered sugar, and rose water in large bowl until soft peaks form; strain in saffron cream. Beat until peaks form.
Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on platter. Spread 1 cup frosting over. Top with second cake layer, flat side down. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Chill at least 1 hour and up to 6 hours. Garnish cake with rose petals and pistachios.

Chocolate Whiskey Bundt Cake 
1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process) plus 3 tablespoons for dusting pan
1 1/2 cups brewed coffee
1/2 cup American whiskey
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, cut into 1-inch pieces
2 cups sugar
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream
Garnish: confectioners sugar for dusting
a 10-inch bundt pan (3 1/4 inches deep; 3-qt capacity)

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter bundt pan well, then dust with 3 tablespoons cocoa powder, knocking out excess.
Heat coffee, whiskey, butter, and remaining cup cocoa powder in a 3-quart heavy saucepan over moderate heat, whisking, until butter is melted. Remove from heat, then add sugar and whisk until dissolved, about 1 minute. Transfer mixture to a large bowl and cool 5 minutes.
While chocolate mixture cools, whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt in a bowl. Whisk together eggs and vanilla in a small bowl, then whisk into cooled chocolate mixture until combined well. Add flour mixture and whisk until just combined (batter will be thin and bubbly). Pour batter into bundt pan and bake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out clean, 40 to 50 minutes.
Cool cake completely in pan on a rack, about 2 hours. Loosen cake from pan using tip of a dinner knife, then invert rack over pan and turn cake out onto rack.

Triple-Chocolate Cookies 
10 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup plus 2 teaspoons all purpose flour
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
6 ounces (1 cup) semisweet chocolate chips

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Stir chopped chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted and smooth; remove from over water. Cool melted chocolate 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, sift flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in another medium bowl until crumbly. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Continue to beat until mixture is light, pale, and creamy, about 5 minutes. Add lukewarm melted chocolate and vanilla and beat just until blended. Fold in dry ingredients, then chocolate chips.
Drop chocolate cookie batter by 1/4 cupfuls onto prepared baking sheets, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake cookies, 1 baking sheet at a time, until tops are evenly cracked but cookies are not yet firm to touch, about 16 minutes. Cool cookies completely on baking sheets. Using metal spatula, carefully transfer 4 cookies to each of 4 large resealable plastic bags, arranging in single layer. Freeze cookies overnight. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Keep frozen.)

Honey-Almond Cakes with Pineapple Zabaglione 
1 7-ounce package almond paste, coarsely crumbled* (about 1 1/2 cups)
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons honey
2 tablespoons Tuaca** or Frangelico (hazelnut-flavored liqueur)
3 large eggs
1/3 cup all purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons frozen pineapple juice concentrate, thawed
3 tablespoons sugar
3 large egg yolks
Sliced almonds, toasted

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter six 3/4-cup custard cups or ramekins. Blend almond paste and sugar in processor until well blended. Using electric mixer, beat butter in medium bowl until smooth. Beat in almond paste mixture, then honey and Tuaca. Add eggs 1 at a time, blending well between additions. Whisk flour and salt in small bowl; mix into almond paste mixture. Divide batter among prepared cups. Bake until golden brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool slightly in cups. (Can be made 6 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature. Rewarm in 325 degrees F oven for 10 minutes, if desired.)
Whisk first 3 ingredients in medium bowl set over pan of barely simmering water until very thick, whisking constantly, about 7 minutes.
Pour warm zabaglione over warm or room-temperature cakes, sprinkle with toasted almonds, and serve.
*Available in the baking-products section of most supermarkets and at specialty foods stores.
**A citrusy, vanilla-flavored Italian liqueur; available at specialty liquor stores.

Peach Blueberry Cake 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup sugar
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon quick-cooking tapioca
2 lb firm-ripe large peaches (about 4), halved lengthwise, pitted, and each half cut lengthwise into fourths
1 cup blueberries (1/2 pint)
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
a 9- to 91/2-inch (24-cm) springform pan; an electric coffee/spice grinder

Pulse together flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a food processor until combined. Add butter and pulse just until mixture resembles coarse meal with some small (roughly pea-size) butter lumps. Add egg and vanilla and pulse just until dough clumps and begins to form a ball, about 15 pulses.
Press dough onto bottom and evenly (about 1/4 inch thick) all the way up side of springform pan with floured fingertips. Chill pastry in pan until firm, about 10 minutes.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Grind 2 tablespoons sugar with flour and tapioca in grinder until tapioca is powdery, then transfer to a large bowl and stir in remaining 6 tablespoons sugar. Add peaches, blueberries, and lemon juice and gently toss to coat. Spoon filling into pastry and bake, loosely covered with a sheet of foil, until filling is bubbling in center and crust is golden, about 1 3/4 hours.
Transfer cake in pan to a rack and cool, uncovered, 20 minutes, then carefully remove side of pan.
Cool cake to barely warm or room temperature, then cut into thick wedges with a sharp knife before serving.

Turtle Cheesecake 
2 tbsp roughly chopped pecans
Butter-flavored vegetable-oil cooking spray
20 chocolate graham crackers, finely ground
4 tsp light butter, melted
2 packages (8 ounces each) fat-free cream cheese
1 package (8 ounces) lowfat cream cheese
2 whole eggs
6 egg whites
21 ounces fat-free sweetened condensed milk (about 1 1/2 cans)
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
3/4 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1 cup caramel topping

Heat oven to 325 degrees . Toast pecans on cookie sheet for 10 to 12 minutes; remove from oven. Raise oven heat to 375 degrees F. Coat a 9 inch springform pan with cooking spray. Combine cookies and butter in a bowl with your hands, then press into pan. Bake 10 minutes; remove from oven. In a food processor, puree cream cheeses, eggs, and egg whites. Add milk and cocoa and process until smooth and all one color. Add chocolate chips and pulse by switching the machine on and off a few times. Pour into pan and bake 40 minutes, until just set. Remove from oven. Cool in fridge for 30 minutes. Remove from pan and top with caramel and pecans.

Grilled Pound Cake with Balsamic Peaches 
4 1/2 tablespoons (packed) golden brown sugar, divided
3 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
2 tablespoons chopped fresh mint
6 ripe large peaches, peeled, cut into 1/2-inch-thick slices
1 cup chilled whipping cream
6 slices purchased pound cake
3 to 4 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature

Prepare barbecue (medium-high heat). Whisk 3 tablespoons sugar, vinegar, and mint in large bowl to blend. Add peaches and toss gently to coat. Let stand at least 5 minutes and up to 30 minutes.
Using electric mixer, beat whipping cream and remaining 1 1/2 tablespoons sugar in another large bowl until peaks form; refrigerate.
Spread cake slices on both sides with butter. Grill until lightly browned. Arrange cake slices on 6 plates. Top each with peaches and syrup, then whipped cream.

Almond Butter Cookies 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 teaspoon salt
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1 tablespoon corn syrup
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
1/2 cup sliced almonds with skins (4 1/2 oz), toasted and cooled completely

Whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt.
Beat together butter, sugars, corn syrup, vanilla, and almond extract in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed (use paddle attachment if you have a stand mixer) until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Reduce speed to low, then add flour mixture and mix just until a dough begins to form. Add almonds and mix just until incorporated. Form dough into a rectangular log (about 12 inches long, 2 inches wide, and 3/4 inch thick). Wrap in wax paper and chill until firm, about 2 hours.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter a large baking sheet.
Cut half of log into 1/8-inch-thick slices with a thin sharp knife and arrange 3/4 inch apart on baking sheet. (Keep remaining dough chilled.)
Bake cookies until golden, about 12 minutes, then transfer with a thin metal spatula to a rack to cool. Repeat with remaining dough.

Blueberry Hill Cupcakes 
3 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1/4 cup canola oil
2 large eggs
1 cup buttermilk or low-fat yogurt
1 cup whole milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1 1/4 cups fresh blueberries, frozen for 4 hours
2 1/4 cups powdered sugar
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons maple sugar
1/2 teaspoon coarse kosher salt
1 1/4 teaspoons vanilla extract
4 teaspoons (or more) whole milk
1 cup chilled fresh blueberries
Fresh mint sprigs (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line two 12-cup muffin pans with paper liners. Sift flour and next 4 ingredients into large bowl. Whisk melted butter and oil in medium bowl. Add eggs; whisk to blend. Whisk in buttermilk, milk, vanilla extract, and peel. Add buttermilk mixture to dry ingredients; whisk just to blend. Stir in frozen blueberries. Divide batter among liners.
Bake cupcakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 23 minutes. Transfer cupcakes to racks; cool.
Combine first 5 ingredients in medium bowl. Add 4 teaspoons milk. Using electric mixer, beat until well blended and fluffy, adding more milk by teaspoonfuls if dry (small granules of maple sugar will still remain), about 4 minutes. Spread frosting over top of cupcakes.
Garnish cupcakes with chilled berries, and mint sprigs, if desired. (Can be made 4 hours ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Cornmeal and Fig Cake with Pine Nuts 
4 large egg yolks
2/3 cup sugar
2 cups whole milk
1/4 cup grappa
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup polenta (coarse cornmeal; do not use instant)
1/2 cup diced dried Calimyrna figs (about 6)
1/3 cup raisins
1/4 cup pine nuts
1 tablespoon fennel seeds

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter 8-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Beat egg yolks and sugar in large bowl. Bring milk, grappa, and salt to boil in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat. Gradually whisk hot milk mixture into egg yolk mixture. Return to saucepan. Whisk in polenta. Whisk over medium-high heat until mixture thickens and begins to bubble, about 8 minutes.
Fold figs, raisins, pine nuts, and fennel seeds into polenta mixture. Pour into prepared cake pan.
Bake cake until golden brown, set in center, and beginning to pull away from sides of pan, about 40 minutes. Cool in pan 20 minutes. Cut around pan sides and invert cake onto platter. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Coconut Macaroons 
Butter and flour for preparing baking sheet and foil
1 flour
1 large egg white
1 tablespoon sugar
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
1/8 teaspoon almond extract
3/4 cup sweetened flaked coconut

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Butter a baking sheet, then line with foil and lightly butter and flour foil, knocking off excess flour.
Stir together egg white, sugar, vanilla, almond extract, and a pinch of salt until combined, then stir in coconut. Divide coconut mixture into fourths, then drop in 4 mounds (about 2 inches apart) onto baking sheet.
Bake until tops are pale golden in spots, 15 to 20 minutes, then carefully lift foil with cookies from baking sheet and transfer to a rack to cool completely, about 15 minutes. Peel macaroons from foil.

Maple-Walnut Espresso Torte 
1 cup water
2/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons pure maple syrup
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon instant espresso powder
1/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
2 cups walnuts (about 8 ounces) plus walnut halves for decoration
1/3 cup matzo meal
4 large eggs
1/2 cup pure maple syrup
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 teaspoons instant espresso powder
1 tablespoon finely grated lemon peel
2 teaspoons ground cardamom
Whipped nondairy topping (optional)*

Bring all ingredients to boil in heavy medium saucepan over medium-high heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Boil until syrup thickens slightly and is reduced to 1 generous cup, about 5 minutes. Set aside.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly oil inside of 8-inch springform pan. Line bottom with parchment paper. Blend 2 cups walnuts and matzo meal in processor until nuts are finely ground. Using electric mixer, beat eggs, maple syrup, sugar, and salt in large bowl at high speed 5 minutes. Add espresso, lemon peel, and cardamom and beat until beginning to thicken, about 5 minutes longer. Gently fold in nut mixture in 4 additions. Pour batter into prepared pan.
Bake torte until brown on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Transfer torte to rack. Spoon 4 tablespoons syrup over hot torte. Decorate top with walnut halves. Cool completely in pan on rack. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover remaining syrup and torte separately and let stand at room temperature.)
Cut around pan sides to loosen torte. Remove pan sides. Cut torte into wedges. Serve with remaining syrup and whipped topping, if desired.
*Kosher-for-Passover nondairy topping mix is usually available in the frozen foods section of kosher markets and some supermarkets. Prepare it according to directions on the label.

Easy Apple Spice Cake 
1 2/3 cups crushed cinnamon graham crackers (about 9 whole crackers)
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, melted, divided
2 tablespoons plus 1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 cup all purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon (scant) salt
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 6-ounce Granny Smith apples, peeled, cored, cut into 1/3-inch cubes
1 1/4cups coarsely chopped walnuts
3 tablespoons sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 13x9x2-inch glass baking dish. Mix graham crackers, 6 tablespoons butter, and 2 tablespoons brown sugar in medium bowl. Press mixture evenly onto bottom of prepared dish. Bake crust until golden brown, about 12 minutes.
Whisk flour, cinnamon, baking powder, salt, and allspice in medium bowl; blend well. Using electric mixer, beat 4 tablespoons melted butter, 1 cup brown sugar, eggs, lemon peel, and vanilla in large bowl until mixture is blended and thick, about 4 minutes. Beat in flour mixture. Fold in apples and walnuts. Spoon batter over crust. Sprinkle with 3 tablespoons sugar. Bake cake until golden brown and firm to touch in center, about 38 minutes. Cool cake completely in dish. Cut into squares and serve.

Lemon Cakes with Basil Lemon Syrup 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened, plus 1 1/2 tablespoons, melted
3/4 cup matzo cake flour plus additional for dusting
2/3 cup plus 1/4 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs, separated, at room temperature for 30 minutes
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon finely grated lemon zest
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups water
1 (4- by 1-inch) strip fresh lemon zest
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice
8 large fresh basil sprigs
1 cup chilled heavy cream
Garnish: small fresh basil leaves
a muffin pan with 12 (1/2-cup) muffin cups

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly brush 8 muffin cups with some of melted butter and chill 2 minutes, then butter again and chill 1 minute more. Dust cups with matzo cake flour, knocking out excess.
Beat together softened butter, 2/3 cup sugar, and 1/8 teaspoon salt in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, then add egg yolks, 1 at a time, beating until well blended. Beat in lemon juice and 2 teaspoons zest until combined. Add flour and mix at low speed until just combined.
Beat whites with remaining 1/8 teaspoon salt in another bowl with cleaned beaters until they hold soft peaks. Add 2 tablespoons sugar, a little at a time, beating, then beat until whites just hold stiff peaks. Stir one fourth of whites into yolk mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Spoon batter into 8 prepared muffin cups.
Blend remaining 2 tablespoons sugar and 1 teaspoon zest with your fingertips and sprinkle over batter, then bake until cakes are puffed, edges are golden, and a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center of cake comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pan on a rack 15 minutes, then lift out cakes carefully (tops will break easily) and cool completely on rack.
Bring all syrup ingredients to a boil, covered, in a 3-quart heavy saucepan over moderate heat, stirring occasionally, then remove lid and boil 10 minutes. Pour syrup through a sieve into a bowl, pressing on and then discarding solids. Cool to room temperature.
Beat cream in a bowl with cleaned beaters until it just holds stiff peaks.
Spoon 1/4 cup syrup into each of 8 shallow bowls and top with cakes. Spoon whipped cream on top of cakes.

Old-Fashioned Crumb Cake 
1 (1/4-ounces) package active dry yeast (2 1/2 teaspoons)
1 cup warm whole milk (105115 degrees F)
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
3 3/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
2 large eggs, at room temperature for 30 minutes
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, cut into tablespoon pieces and softened slightly
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1 teaspoon vanilla
a stand mixer fitted with paddle attachment

Stir together yeast, 1/4 cup warm milk, and 1 tablespoon sugar in bowl of mixer until yeast is dissolved, then let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes. (If mixture doesn't foam, discard and start over with new yeast.)
Stir together lemon juice and remaining 3/4 cup milk and let stand until curdled, 1 to 2 minutes.
Add 3 3/4 cups flour to yeast mixture along with salt, eggs, vanilla, and remaining 1/2 cup sugar and mix at low speed until just combined. Add curdled milk and beat at medium speed until a dough forms. Add butter, 1 piece at a time, beating, then continue to beat until dough is silky and elastic, 5 to 8 minutes. (Dough will be very sticky.) Sprinkle with remaining 2 tablespoons flour and cover bowl with a clean kitchen towel (not terry cloth). Let dough rise in a draft-free place at warm room temperature until doubled in bulk, 1 1/2 to 2 hours.
Pulse together topping ingredients in a food processor until many large clumps form. Transfer to a bowl and chill, covered, until ready to use.
Butter a 13- by 9-inch baking dish or pan.
Stir dough several times with a rubber scraper to release air, then spread evenly in baking dish.
Sprinkle dough with half of topping, then cover dish with kitchen towel and let dough rise again in a draft-free place at warm room temperature until almost doubled in bulk, 1 to 1 1/2 hours.
Put oven rack in middle of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Sprinkle remaining topping over top of cake and bake until topping is golden, 55 to 60 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack until barely warm, then cut into squares.

Lemon Curd Mousse Cake 
2 1/3 cups sugar
4 teaspoons cornstarch
1 cup fresh lemon juice
4 large eggs
4 large egg yolks
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups shortbread cookie crumbs (about 7 1/2 ounces)
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
5 tablespoons water
4 teaspoons unflavored gelatin
6 large egg whites
3/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
Lemon slices, cut into quarters (garnish)

Mix sugar and cornstarch in heavy large saucepan. Gradually add lemon juice, whisking until all cornstarch dissolves. Whisk in eggs and yolks. Add butter. Stir over medium heat until curd thickens and boils, about 12 minutes. Transfer to medium bowl. Chill until cold, at least 6 hours. (Can be made 1 week ahead.
Press plastic wrap onto surface of curd and keep chilled.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray bottom of 8-inch-diameter springform pan with nonstick spray. Blend cookie crumbs and butter in small bowl. Press onto bottom of pan. Bake until golden, about 15 minutes. Cool.
Pour 5 tablespoons water into small saucepan. Sprinkle gelatin evenly over. Let stand until gelatin softens, about 15 minutes.
Meanwhile, place 1 3/4 cups lemon curd in large bowl. Stir 3/4 cup curd in another small saucepan over medium-low heat until very warm.
Stir gelatin mixture over medium-low heat until dissolved and liquid is clear (do not boil). Whisk warm gelatin mixture into 3/4 cup warm curd. Gradually whisk gelatin-curd mixture into curd in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add sugar, beating until whites are thick and glossy. Fold whites into curd mixture in 3 additions. Using same beaters, beat cream in another medium bowl until peaks form. Fold into egg white-curd mixture in 3 additions. Pour enough mousse over cooled crust to fill pan completely. Pour remaining mousse into small bowl and reserve. Cover and chill mousse cake, reserved mousse, and remaining curd overnight.
Using long thin knife, cut around cake to loosen. Remove pan sides. Gently spread 3/4 cup of remaining curd over cake. Transfer reserved mousse to pastry bag fitted with small star tip. Pipe rosettes of mousse around top edge of cake. Chill cake until ready to serve. (Can be made up to 8 hours ahead.)
Arrange lemon slices between rosettes. Cut cake into wedges.

Butter Cookies with Dulce de Leche 
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup cornstarch
3/4 to 1 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup granulated sugar
2 large egg yolks
1 tablespoon Pisco or regular brandy
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
About 1/4 cup dulce de leche*
Confectioners sugar for dusting
a 1 1/2-inch round cookie cutter

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a large baking sheet.
Whisk together cornstarch, 3/4 cup flour, baking powder, and salt in a small bowl.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer until light and fluffy, then beat in egg yolks, Pisco, and vanilla. Stir in flour mixture until combined, adding 1 to 2 tablespoons flour if dough is sticky. (Dough should be soft.)
Form dough into a disk and roll out into an 11-inch round (1/8 inch thick) on a lightly floured surface with a lightly floured rolling pin. Cut out 32 rounds with cutter (reroll scraps if necessary) and transfer to sheet, arranging rounds 1/2 inch apart.
Bake until firm and pale golden around edges, 12 to 15 minutes. Transfer to a rack and cool 10 minutes.
Sandwich cookies with about 1/2 teaspoon dulce de leche. Dust with confectioners sugar.

Mace Cake 
4 large eggs
2 1/2 cups sugar
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon plus 1/2 teaspoon ground mace
1 cup whole milk
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter
Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour a 13- by 9-inch baking pan, knocking out excess flour.
Beat eggs with 2 cups sugar in a large bowl using an electric mixer at high speed until tripled in volume and thick enough to form a ribbon that takes 2 seconds to dissolve into batter when beater is lifted, 7 to 8 minutes in a stand mixer or 14 to 16 with a handheld.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, salt, and 1 tablespoon mace.
Bring milk and butter to a boil in a small heavy saucepan, then remove from heat.
Add flour mixture to egg mixture, stirring until just combined. Stir in hot milk mixture until combined (batter will be thin).
Stir together remaining 1/2 cup sugar and remaining 1/2 teaspoon mace in a small bowl.
Pour batter into baking pan and sprinkle evenly with mace sugar. (Sugar will form a crust as cake bakes.) Bake until pale golden and a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out clean, 25 to 30 minutes.
Cool cake in pan on a rack until warm, at least 30 minutes. Cut into squares and serve warm or at room temperature.

Mary's Bell Cookies 
1/3 cup packed light brown sugar
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, softened
15 to 18 maraschino cherries (from a 10-oz jar), including 3 tablespoons juice
1 1/2 cups finely chopped pecans (5 oz)
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon instant-coffee granules or instant-espresso powder
1 1/4 cups packed light brown sugar
1 cup vegetable shortening (preferably trans-fat free), at room temperature
1/4 cup dark corn syrup
1 large egg
1 tablespoon heavy cream
a 2 1/2-inch round cookie cutter; a small offset spatula

Stir together brown sugar, butter, and 3 tablespoons cherry juice until combined, then stir in pecans. Set cherries aside.
Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, ginger, baking soda, salt, and coffee.
Beat together brown sugar and shortening in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, 6 to 8 minutes. Add corn syrup, egg, and cream and beat until combined well.
Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture, then mix until combined.
Roll out one third of dough between 2 sheets of wax paper to 1/8-inch thick (about 15 by 11 inches). Chill dough on wax paper on a baking sheet until slightly firm, about 10 minutes. Cut out as many cookies as possible with cutter and transfer with a metal spatula to 2 ungreased large baking sheets, spacing them 1/2 inch apart. Roll out, chill, and cut remaining dough in same manner. Reserve scraps.
Center 1/2 teaspoon nut filling on lower half of each cookie, then, using spatula, fold sides in toward center to form a cone. (Dough may crack along fold; part of filling will be exposed.)
Stem and quarter cherries. Place 1 cherry quarter over exposed filling on each cookie to make bell clapper.
Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until edges are pale golden, 12 to 16 minutes total. Transfer to racks to cool completely.
Reroll scraps, then make more cookies in same manner (reroll only twice), baking them on cooled sheets.

Chocolate Yogurt Cake 
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened, plus additional for buttering pan
2/3 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder plus additional for dusting pan
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup whole-milk plain yogurt
1/3 cup water
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 large eggs
an 8 1/2- by 4 1/2- by 2 1/2-inch loaf pan (6-cup capacity)

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter pan, then dust with cocoa powder, knocking out excess.
Whisk together flour, 2/3 cup cocoa, baking powder, salt, and baking soda in a bowl. Whisk yogurt with water and vanilla in another bowl. Beat 3/4 stick butter with sugar in a large bowl using an electric mixer at medium speed until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating after each addition. Reduce speed to low and add half of flour mixture. Add yogurt mixture, then remaining flour mixture, mixing until just combined.
Transfer batter to pan and bake until a skewer inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool in pan on a rack 15 minutes, then turn out onto rack to cool completely.

Marsala and Mascarpone Mousse with Pound Cake and Berries 
1/2 cup sugar
1/3 cup plus 3 tablespoons imported sweet Marsala
3 egg yolks
1 cup (8 ounces) mascarpone cheese
1/2 cup chilled whipping cream
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
24 4x1/2x1/4-inch strips purchased pound cake
2 1/2-pint containers raspberries

Whisk sugar, 1/3 cup Marsala, and egg yolks to blend in large metal bowl. Set over pan of barely simmering water (do not allow bowl to touch water); whisk constantly until mixture thickens and thermometer registers 160 degrees F, about 6 minutes. Place bowl over large bowl filled with ice; continue whisking until zabaglione cools, about 3 minutes.
Whisk mascarpone to loosen in another large bowl; in 3 additions, foldin zabaglione. Whip cream, vanilla, and cinnamon in small bowl until soft peaks form; fold into zabaglione.
Sprinkle pound cake strips with remaining 3 tablespoons Marsala. Arrange 4 strips in each of 6 goblets. Sprinkle a few raspberries over; top with 1/2 cup mousse. Sprinkle remaining raspberries over. Cover; chill 1 hour or overnight.

Coconut Pound Cake 
2 cups all-purpose flour plus additional for dusting
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
4 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon coconut extract
1 1/2 cups sweetened flaked coconut (6 oz), toasted and cooled

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 325 degrees F.
Butter a 9- by 5- by 3-inch loaf pan and dust with flour, knocking out excess flour.
Whisk together flour (2 cups), baking powder, and salt in a bowl.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes with a stand mixer or 8 to 10 minutes with a handheld. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in extracts. Reduce speed to low, then mix in flour mixture until just combined. Fold in coconut gently but thoroughly with a rubber spatula.
Spoon batter evenly into loaf pan, smoothing top. Bake until golden and a wooden pick or skewer inserted into center comes out clean, 1 to 1 1/4 hours.
Cool cake in pan on a rack 15 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge of cake, then invert onto rack and cool completely.

Crunchy Pecan Cookies 
6 oz pecans (1 1/2 cups)
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup potato starch
1/4 teaspoon salt
Scant 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
3 large egg whites, lightly beaten
parchment paper

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line a large baking sheet with parchment paper.
Coarsely chop 1 cup pecans and set aside. Pulse remaining 1/2 cup pecans in a food processor with sugar, potato starch, salt, and cinnamon until finely ground (be careful not to pulse to a paste), then stir into egg whites. Stir in remaining cup chopped pecans.
Drop 1/2 tablespoons of batter 2 inches apart on baking sheet and bake until cookies are lightly browned and slightly puffed, 15 to 17 minutes. Slide parchment onto a rack and cool cookies completely (cookies will crisp as they cool), then remove from paper. Bake and cool 2 more parchment-lined sheets of cookies in same manner.

Lemon-Walnut Biscotti 
3 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/3 cups sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons finely grated lemon peel
2 large eggs
3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
3 cups chopped walnuts
1 large egg, beaten to blend (for glaze)
Raw sugar*

Whisk flour, salt, baking powder, and baking soda in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter, 1 1/3 cups sugar, and lemon peel in large bowl until blended. Add 2 eggs, 1 at a time, beating just to blend after each addition. Beat in lemon juice, then flour mixture. Stir in walnuts.
Divide dough into 3 equal pieces. Place each piece on sheet of plastic wrap. Using plastic wrap as aid, form dough into 8-inch-long logs. Press logs slightly, flattening to 2 1/2-inch-wide logs. Enclose in plastic wrap and chill until firm, at least 3 hours and up to 3 days.
Position rack in upper third of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Line heavy large rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Unwrap logs, leaving on plastic. Brush top of logs with egg glaze. Sprinkle with raw sugar. Lift logs from plastic and transfer to prepared baking sheet, spacing evenly. Bake until golden brown and just firm to touch, about 50 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool completely. Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F.
Line 2 heavy rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Using long serrated knife, carefully cut logs crosswise into 1/3-inch-thick slices. Arrange biscotti, cut side down, on prepared baking sheets. Bake cookies until golden brown around edges, about 20 minutes. Cool completely (biscotti will crisp as they cool). (Can be made 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)
*Also called turbinado or demerara sugar; available at most supermarkets and natural foods stores.

Sweet Rice-Flour and Coconut Cake 
3 cups mochiko* (sweet rice flour; 1 lb)
2 1/2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 (14-oz) cans unsweetened coconut milk (not low-fat)
5 large eggs
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 teaspoon vanilla

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together mochiko, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl. Whisk together coconut milk, eggs, butter, and vanilla in another bowl. Add coconut mixture to flour mixture, whisking until batter is combined.
Pour batter into an ungreased 13- by 9-inch baking pan, smoothing top, and bake until top is golden and cake begins to pull away from sides of pan, about 1 1/2 hours. Cool cake completely in pan on a rack, about 2 hours. Cut mochi into 24 squares before serving.

Apricot Almond Layer Cake 
12 oz sliced blanched almonds (3 3/4 cups) or blanched slivered almonds (2 3/4 cups)
3 1/3 cups confectioners sugar
6 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons granulated sugar
6 oz dried California apricots (1 1/2 cups), finely chopped
1 1/2 cups water
3 tablespoons apricot preserves
1 cup sliced blanched almonds (3 oz)
1/2 cup confectioners sugar
1 1/2 cups imported Italian mascarpone cheese (10 oz)
1/4 cup well-chilled heavy cream
1/4 cup Disaronno Amaretto or other almond-flavored liqueur
parchment paper

Trace 2 (8-inch) circles on 1 sheet of parchment paper and a third circle on second sheet. Turn sheets over and put on 2 baking sheets.
Pulse almonds with 1 1/3 cups confectioners sugar in a food processor until very finely ground (mixture will resemble sand), 2 to 3 minutes. Transfer to a large bowl and sift in remaining 2 cups confectioners sugar, then stir until combined well.
Beat egg whites with salt in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until they just hold soft peaks. Add granulated sugar a little at a time, beating, then increase speed to high and continue to beat until whites hold stiff, glossy peaks, about 3 minutes.
Stir whites into almond mixture until completely incorporated (batter will be thick), then divide batter evenly among traced circles on baking sheets (about 1 2/3 cups per circle), smoothing into 1/2-inch-thick rounds.Let rounds stand, uncovered, at room temperature until tops are no longer sticky and a light crust forms, about 30 minutes.
Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Bake macaroon layers, switching position of baking sheets halfway through cooking, until macaroons are crisp and edges are just barely pale golden, about 25 minutes. Turn off oven and let macaroons stand in oven 10 minutes. Cool completely on baking sheets on racks, about 1 hour.
Simmer dried apricots in water in a 2- to 3-quart heavy saucepan, uncovered, over moderate heat, stirring occasionally, until apricots are very soft and most of liquid is evaporated, about 15 minutes. Stir in preserves, then cool completely.
Heat almonds in a 12-inch dry heavy skillet over moderate heat, stirring frequently, until almonds are hot but not yet colored, about 2 minutes. Add confectioners sugar and continue cooking, stirring and tossing, until almonds are lightly toasted and sugar glaze is caramelized, about 3 minutes. Immediately transfer almonds to a large sheet of foil and spread into 1 layer with a fork. Cool completely.
Just before serving, beat together mascarpone, heavy cream, and Amaretto with cleaned beaters at medium speed until thick and smooth, about 2 minutes. Reserve 1/4 cup praline almonds, then fold remainder into cream.
Put 1 macaroon layer on a platter and spread with one third of compote (about 1/2 cup), then spread one fourth of mascarpone cream (about 3/4 cup) on top. Make another layer with second macaroon in same manner. Top with remaining macaroon, remaining compote, and remaining cream (1 1/2 cups), then sprinkle with reserved praline almonds.

Sicilian Cannoli 
1 cup all-purpose flour plus additional for dusting
3 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon baking soda
1 lb cold lard
2 tablespoons sweet Marsala wine
1 large egg, separated
About 3 cups vegetable oil
1 lb fresh ricotta (2 cups)
2 oz soft mild goat cheese
1/4 cup confectioners sugar
1 tablespoon minced candied orange peel
1/2 teaspoon orange-flower water (also called orange-blossom water)
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/3 cup shelled unsalted pistachios (not dyed red), chopped
2 oz bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped (1/2 cup)
Garnish: confectioners sugar
a pasta maker; a 4- to 4 1/4-inch round cookie cutter; a deep-fat thermometer; 6 (roughly 5 5/8- by 5/8-inch) metal cannoli tubes; 2 heavy-duty oven mitts; a pastry bag fitted with a 3/4-inch plain tip

Whisk together flour, sugar, cocoa, cinnamon, salt, and baking soda. Add 2 tablespoons lard and blend in with your fingertips until combined. Add wine and yolk and stir until a dough forms.
Turn out dough onto a lightly floured surface and knead until smooth and elastic, 5 to 7 minutes. Form dough into a disk and wrap tightly in plastic wrap, then let stand at room temperature 1 hour.
Beat together ricotta, goat cheese, confectioners sugar, orange peel, orange-flower water, and cinnamon in a bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed 1 minute (do not overbeat). Fold in nuts and chocolate until combined and chill.
Set smooth rollers of pasta maker at widest setting. Unwrap dough and cut in half, then lightly flour 1 piece (keep remaining half covered with plastic wrap). Flatten floured dough into an oval and feed through rollers. Turn dial down 2 notches and feed dough through rollers again. Continue to feed dough through rollers, making space between rollers narrower by 2 notches each time, until narrowest setting is used.
Line a baking sheet with plastic wrap. Transfer rolled dough to a lightly floured surface and cut out 4 or 5 rounds with floured cutter. Transfer rounds to baking sheet and keep covered with more plastic wrap. Roll out remaining dough and cut rounds in same manner. Gather scraps and let stand 10 minutes. Roll out scraps and cut in same manner.
Heat remaining lard with 1 1/4 inches oil in a 4-quart heavy pot over moderate heat until it registers 350 degrees F on thermometer.
Meanwhile, lightly oil cannoli tubes. Lightly beat egg white, then brush bottom edge of 1 dough round with egg white. Wrap dough around a tube, overlapping ends (egg-white edge should go on top), then press edges together to seal. Make 5 more shells in same manner (keep remaining rounds covered with plastic).
Fry dough on tubes 1 at a time, turning with metal tongs, until 1 shade darker, about 45 seconds. Wearing oven mitts, clamp end of hot tubes, 1 at a time, with tongs and, holding tube vertically, allow shell to slide off tube onto paper towels, gently shaking tube and wiggling shell as needed to loosen. (If you allow shell to cool it will stick to tube and shatter when you try to remove it.) Transfer shells to paper towels to drain and cool tubes before reusing. Wrap remaining dough around tubes and fry in same manner.
Spoon filling into pastry bag and pipe some into 1 end of a cannoli shell, filling shell halfway, then pipe into other end. Repeat with remaining shells.

Earl Grey Tea Madeleines with Honey 
5 tablespoons unsalted butter plus additional for molds, room temperature
2 tablespoons loose tea or tea from 2 tea bags (preferably Earl Grey)
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
Pinch of salt
2 large eggs
1/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons honey
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon (packed) finely grated lemon peel

Line small sieve with 2 layers of damp cheesecloth and set sieve over small bowl. Melt 5 tablespoons butter in saucepan over low heat. Mix in tea. Let stand 10 minutes, then pour into sieve. Twist cheesecloth tightly around tea mixture, releasing tea-flavored butter into bowl.
Sift flour, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat eggs and sugar in large bowl until thick, about 4 minutes. Add honey, vanilla, and lemon peel; beat 1 minute longer. Gently fold in dry ingredients, then tea-flavored butter. Press plastic wrap onto surface of batter; chill batter at least 3 hours and up to 1 day.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 400 degrees F. Brush twelve 3x2-inch madeleine molds with butter. Dust with flour; tap out excess. Place pan on baking sheet. Drop 1 scant tablespoon batter into each mold (batter will spread while baking, filling molds completely).
Bake madeleines until golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 10 minutes. Sharply rap pan on work surface to loosen madeleines, then turn out onto rack. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Grilled Pound Cake with Pineapple  inchSalsa inch and Tequila Whipped Cream 
3/4 cup heavy (whipping) cream
3 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 tablespoon tequila (preferably gold)
8 slices pound cake (each 1/2 inch thick)
2 to 3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
Pineapple  inchSalsa inch
4 fresh mint sprigs, for garnish

1. Place the cream in a chilled mixer bowl or in a large metal bowl. Beat with a mixer until soft peaks form, starting on the slow speed and gradually increasing the speed to high. The total beating time will be 6 to 8 minutes. When soft peaks have formed, add the confectioners' sugar, cinnamon, and tequila. Continue beating the cream until stiff peaks form, about 2 minutes longer. Don't overbeat the cream or it will start to turn to butter. The tequila whipped cream can be made several hours ahead. Refrigerate it, covered, until ready to serve.
2. Lightly brush each slice of pound cake with butter on both sides. Cook the pound cake, following the instructions below for any of the grills, until lightly toasted. If desired, rotate each slice a quarter turn after 1 minute to create a handsome crosshatch of grill marks. You may need to cook the pound cake slices in more than one batch.
3. Place the pound cake slices on plates. Top each serving with a spoonful of Pineapple  inchSalsa inch and a dollop of tequila whipped cream, garnish with a sprig of mint, and serve at once.
Preheat the grill; if your contact grill has a temperature control, preheat the grill to high. Place the drip pan under the front of the grill. When ready to cook, lightly oil the grill surface. Place the slices of pound cake on the hot grill, then close the lid. The pound cake will be done after cooking 2 to 4 minutes.
Place the grill pan on the stove and preheat it to medium-high over medium heat. When the grill pan is hot a drop of water will skitter in the pan. When ready to cook, lightly oil the ridges of the grill pan. Place the slices of pound cake in the hot grill pan. They will be done after cooking 2 to 4 minutes per side.
Preheat the grill to high, then, if it does not have a nonstick surface, brush and oil the grill grate. Place the pound cake slices on the hot grate. They will be done after cooking 2 to 4 minutes per side.
Preheat the grill to high; there's no need to oil the grate. Place the pound cake slices on the hot grill. They will be done after cooking 3 to 5 minutes per side.
Rake red hot embers under the gridiron and preheat it for 3 to 5 minutes; you want a hot, 2 to 3 Mississippi fire. When ready to cook, brush and oil the gridiron. Place the pound cake slices on the hot grate. They will be done after cooking 2 to 4 minutes per side.

Triple-Chocolate Cranberry Oatmeal Cookies 
1 cup all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup old-fashioned oats
1/2 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1/2 cup milk chocolate chips
1/2 cup white chocolate chips
1/2 cup coarsely chopped fresh or frozen cranberries
2 ounces milk chocolate or white chocolate, chopped (for drizzling)

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Whisk flour, baking soda, cinnamon, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter and both sugars in large bowl until smooth. Beat in egg and vanilla. Add flour mixture and oats and stir until blended. Stir in all chocolate chips and cranberries.
Drop batter by rounded tablespoonfuls onto prepared sheets, 2 inches apart. Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until edges are light brown, about 16 minutes. Cool on sheets 5 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool completely.
Stir chopped milk chocolate in top of double boiler until melted and smooth. Using small spoon, drizzle melted chocolate over cookies in zigzag pattern. Let stand until milk chocolate sets, about 1 hour. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Black Pearl Layer Cake 
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup heavy whipping cream
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon wasabi powder*
2 tablespoons black sesame seeds*
1 tablespoon corn syrup
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) butter, room temperature
1 cup water
1/2 cup sugar
5 tablespoons matchstick-size strips peeled fresh ginger
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
2 cups boiling water
1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 3/4 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 1/4 cups sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 large eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
2 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
Additional black sesame seeds

Place chocolate in medium bowl. Bring cream, ginger, and wasabi to boil in small pot. Pour hot cream over chocolate; cover with plastic wrap and let stand 15 minutes. Whisk cream and chocolate until smooth. Mix sesame seeds and corn syrup in small bowl to coat; stir into chocolate mixture. Let cool to lukewarm. Stir in butter. Cover and let stand at room temperature overnight to set.
Place 1 cup water, sugar, and ginger in small saucepan. Scrape seeds from vanilla bean into pan; add bean. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Simmer 2 minutes; remove from heat. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour for flavors to blend.
Strain syrup into small bowl. Chop ginger. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate ginger and syrup separately.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour three 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms with parchment paper.
Whisk 2 cups boiling water, cocoa powder, and reserved chopped ginger in medium heatproof bowl. Whisk flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until fluffy, about 1 minute. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until incorporated after each addition. Beat in vanilla extract. Add flour mixture in 4 additions alternately with cocoa mixture in 3 additions, beginning and ending with flour mixture. Divide batter among prepared cake pans; smooth tops.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool in pans 5 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks; cool completely. (Cakes can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap with plastic wrap and store at room temperature.)
Beat cream in large bowl until soft peaks form. Add sugar, vanilla, and ginger. Beat until stiff peaks form.
Using long serrated knife, trim rounded tops off cakes to create flat surface. Place 1 cake layer, cut side up, on plate. Brush top with 1/3 cup ginger syrup. Spread half of ganache over top of cake. Place second layer, cut side up, atop first layer. Brush with 1/3 cup syrup; spread with remaining ganache. Top with third cake layer. Brush with remaining syrup. Spread sides and top with whipped cream frosting. Sprinkle top with black sesame seeds. Refrigerate until ganache is set, about 4 hours. Let stand at room temperature 30 minutes before serving. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
*Available in the Asian foods section of some supermarkets and at Asian markets.

Bitter Chocolate Soufflé Cake 
6 1/2 ounces extra-bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup plus 6 tablespoons unsalted butter
5 large eggs, separated
1/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
Unsweetened cocoa power, for garnish
Eight 6-ounce aluminum tins

1. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees. Bring a pan of water barely to a simmer. Place the chocolate and butter in a double boiler or metal mixing bowl and place over the pan of hot but not simmering water. Heat, stirring occasionally, until the mixture has melted but is not too hot. Stir until smooth.
2. In a mixing bowl, whisk the egg yolks and 1/4 cup of sugar together until thickened slightly and lighter in color. Whisk in the flour and then the chocolate mixture.
3. Place the egg whites in a metal bowl and place over hot water until warmed slightly. Add 1 tablespoon of sugar and whip with an electric mixer on medium-low speed until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1 1/2 tablespoons more sugar. Turn the speed to high and add the last 1/2 tablespoon of sugar, whipping the whites to firm peaks.
4. Stir a third of the egg whites into the chocolate mixture. Fold in the remaining whites. Divide the batter among the tins. (The recipe can be made to this point up to 1 1/2 hours before serving; refrigerate).
5. Place the tins on a baking sheet and bake until the tops are puffed and feel firm to the touch but are very liquidy in the center, about 8 minutes (or a few minutes longer if they were cold).
6. Meanwhile, sift a little cocoa lightly over 8 dessert plates. Three minutes after the cakes are done, run the tip of a knife around the sides to loosen, and unmold the cakes onto the plates, rinsing the knife with hot water between each one. Serve immediately with vanilla ice cream or chocolate sorbet.

Orange Corkscrew Tuiles 
1/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh orange zest
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1 large egg white
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
a nonstick bakeware liner such as a Silpat; a small offset spatula; 4 wooden spoons with round handles or 4 pencils

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Put nonstick liner on a baking sheet.
Grind together sugar and zest in a food processor 1 minute. Add butter and blend until combined well, then add egg white, vanilla, and a pinch of salt and blend until incorporated. Add flour and pulse until just combined.
Spoon 1/2 teaspoon batter in a 5-inch line at one end of nonstick liner, then spread into a strip (about 3/4 inch wide and 5 inches long) with offset spatula. Make 3 more strips on same liner and bake until golden all over, 5 to 7 minutes. Cool strips on baking sheet 30 seconds (to facilitate removal), then carefully remove 1 strip with cleaned spatula and invert onto a work surface. Working quickly, wrap strip twice in a spiral around handle of a wooden spoon and transfer (still wrapped around handle) to a rack to cool and harden, about 1 minute. Repeat with remaining strips. (If strips become too brittle to work with, return to oven a few seconds to soften.) When cool and hard, remove wooden spoons and transfer tuiles to a tray. Make more tuiles in same manner, cooling and cleaning nonstick liner and spatula between batches.

Far Breton 
2 cups whole milk
3 large eggs
1/2 cup sugar
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, cooled
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1 cup small or medium-size pitted prunes (about 6 ounces)
1/2 cup water
1/3 cup raisins
1/4 cup Armagnac or other brandy
Powdered sugar

Combine milk, eggs, 1/2 cup sugar, butter, vanilla, and salt in blender jar. Blend 1 minute. Add flour and pulse just until blended, scraping down sides of jar. Cover and chill in jar at least 3 hours and up to 1 day.
Combine prunes, 1/2 cup water, and raisins in heavy small saucepan. Cook over medium heat until fruit is softened and water is almost evaporated, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes. Turn off heat. Pour brandy over fruit. Using long match, ignite brandy. Let flames burn off, shaking pan occasionally. Transfer fruit to small bowl. Cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.)
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Butter 8-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom with parchment or waxed paper. Butter paper. Dust pan with flour, shaking out excess; place on baking sheet.
Reblend batter until smooth, about 5 seconds. Pour into prepared cake pan. Drop prunes and raisins into batter, distributing evenly. Bake cake on baking sheet until sides are puffed and brown and knife inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool cake completely in pan on rack.
Place piece of parchment or waxed paper on flat plate. Sift powdered sugar onto paper. Run knife around cake in pan to loosen. Invert pan onto paper, releasing cake. Remove pan; peel off paper. Place serving plate over cake and invert. Dust top of cake with additional powdered sugar.

Kouglof 
1/3 cup golden raisins
1/3 cup warm whole milk (105 degrees F to 115 degrees F)
1 1/2 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 2/3 cups all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes, room temperature
Powdered sugar

Place raisins in small microwave-safe bowl. Cover with water. Microwave on high 1 minute. Let stand until cool.
Stir milk and yeast in large bowl of heavy-duty mixer to blend. Let stand until yeast dissolves, about 8 minutes. Attach dough hook. Add flour and salt to bowl; beat on low speed until blended, scraping sides of bowl often. Whisk eggs and yolk in small bowl to blend. Gradually add eggs to dough, beating on low speed until just blended. Add 3 tablespoons sugar, increase speed to medium, and beat until dough is smooth, scraping sides and bottom of bowl often, about 5 minutes. Reduce speed to medium-low. Add butter, 1 cube at a time, beating to incorporate each (dough will be very soft). Scrape dough off sides of bowl and dough hook. Beat dough until well-blended and pulling away from sides of bowl, about 8 minutes.
Remove bowl from mixer. Drain raisins. Stir raisins into dough. Scrape dough into medium bowl. Cover with plastic wrap and let rise in warm area until doubled in volume, about 1 hour 30 minutes. Using rubber spatula, turn dough over several times in bowl to deflate. Cover again and chill 2 hours, turning to deflate if dough rises. Cover tightly and keep refrigerated overnight.
Generously butter 8- to 9-cup kouglof mold. Roll chilled dough between palms and work surface to 12- to 15-inch rope and place around center post in prepared mold. Cover mold with plastic wrap and let dough rise until almost level with top edge, about 3 hours.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Bake kouglof uncovered until golden brown on top and tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool in pan 2 minutes. Turn out onto rack and cool.
Sift powdered sugar over kouglof. Cut into wedges and serve.

Walnut Sables 
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 cup finely chopped toasted walnuts
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 large egg yolk
Raw sugar*

Mix flour, walnuts, baking powder, and 1/8 teaspoon salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter, powdered sugar, and vanilla in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in egg yolk. Add flour mixture and stir until blended. Shape dough into ball; flatten into disk. Wrap in plastic and chill until firm enough to roll, about 15 minutes.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Roll out dough on lightly floured surface to 1/4-inch thickness. Using assorted cutters, cut out cookies. Transfer cookies to prepared sheets. Gather dough scraps and repeat until all dough is used. Sprinkle cookies with raw sugar, pressing lightly to adhere.
Bake sablés until light golden, about 20 minutes. Cool on sheets 5 minutes. Transfer to racks and cool completely. (Can be made 4 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Sticky Toffee Pudding 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened, plus additional for greasing pan
1 cup self-rising cake flour plus additional for flouring pan
1 cup pitted dates (5 oz), finely chopped
1 1/4 cups packed dark brown sugar
1 large egg

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour an 8- by 2-inch round cake pan.
Simmer dates in 1 cup water in a 1-quart heavy saucepan, covered, until soft, about 5 minutes. Let stand, covered, off heat 5 minutes.
Beat together 1 stick butter and 1/4 cup brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Beat in egg until combined. Add flour and 1/8 teaspoon salt and mix at low speed until just combined. Add dates and mix until just combined well.
Pour batter into pan and bake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out clean, about 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, melt remaining stick butter in a 2-quart heavy saucepan over moderate heat and stir in remaining cup brown sugar, 1/3 cup water, and a pinch of salt. Boil over moderately high heat, uncovered, stirring occasionally, until sugar is dissolved and sauce is reduced to about 1 1/4 cups, 2 to 8 minutes. Remove from heat and cover.
Transfer pudding in pan to a rack and poke all over at 1-inch intervals with a chopstick. Gradually pour half of warm sauce evenly over hot pudding. Let stand until almost all of sauce is absorbed, about 20 minutes.
Run a thin knife around edge of pan. Invert a plate over pudding and invert pudding onto plate. Pour remaining warm sauce over pudding and serve immediately.

Yogurt Cake with Marmalade Glaze 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup plain whole-milk yogurt
1 cup sugar
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon (packed) finely grated lemon peel
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1/4 cup lemon, orange, or grapefruit marmalade (for glaze)
1 teaspoon water

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Generously butter 8 1/2x4 1/2x2 1/2-inch metal loaf pan. Sift flour, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Combine yogurt, sugar, eggs, lemon peel, and vanilla in large bowl; whisk until well blended. Gradually whisk in dry ingredients. Using rubber spatula, fold in oil. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Place pan on baking sheet.
Place cake on baking sheet in oven and bake until cake begins to pull away from sides of pan and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 50 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 5 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto rack. Turn cake upright on rack and cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap and store at room temperature.)
Stir marmalade and 1 teaspoon water in small saucepan over medium heat until marmalade melts. Brush hot mixture over top of cake. Let glaze cool and set. Cut cake crosswise into slices.

Iced Stars 
1 2/3 cups all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature, divided
2/3 cup sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract, divided
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
1 cup powdered sugar
3 1/2 teaspoons (about) whole milk
Assorted decorative candies (such as colored sugar crystals, edible glitter, and nonpareils)

Sift first 3 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat 1 cup butter and 2/3 cup sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in 1 teaspoon vanilla extract and almond extract. Beat in flour mixture until just blended. Gather dough together; divide in half. Flatten each half into disk, wrap in plastic, and chill overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled. Soften dough slightly at room temperature before rolling out.)
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Working with 1 disk at a time, roll out on lightly floured surface to scant 1/4-inch thickness. Cut out cookies with assorted cutters. Transfer cookies to prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Gather scraps and roll out on lightly floured surface; cut out additional cookies. Repeat until all dough is used.
Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until edges and bottoms are light golden, about 16 minutes. Cool on sheets 5 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool completely.
Sift powdered sugar into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat in 1/4 cup butter, 1/2 teaspoon vanilla, and enough milk by teaspoonfuls to form thick icing. Spread thinly onto cookies. Decorate as desired. Let stand until set, about 2 hours. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Store between waxed paper in airtight container at room temperature.)

White Chocolate and Peppermint Cookie Brittle 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, melted, cooled slightly
1/2 cup sugar
1/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
10 ounces high-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), chopped into 1/3-inch pieces, divided
3/4 cup coarsely crushed red-and-white-striped hard peppermint candies (about 6 ounces), divided

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line baking sheet with parchment paper. Whisk flour, baking soda, and salt in medium bowl. Whisk melted butter, both sugars, and vanilla in large bowl until smooth. Stir in flour mixture until just blended. Stir in 1 cup chopped white chocolate and 1/2 cup crushed peppermint candy.
Transfer dough to prepared sheet. Press dough into 14x8-inch rectangle, about 3/8 inch thick. Bake cookie until top is firm and dark golden, about 30 minutes. Cool on sheet 10 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool completely.
Stir remaining white chocolate in top of double boiler over barely simmering water until melted and smooth. Using small spoon, drizzle about half of melted chocolate in thin lines over cooled cookie. Sprinkle remaining crushed peppermint candies over chocolate. Drizzle remaining white chocolate over top. Let stand until white chocolate sets, about 1 hour. Break cookie into irregular 2- to 3-inch pieces. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Chocolate-Cherry, Pistachio, and Raspberry Ice Cream Cake 
1/2 cup dried tart cherries
1/2 cup orange juice
1 5.5-ounce package amaretti cookies*
1/4 cup almonds, toasted
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1 1/2 pints chocolate ice cream, softened
1 3-ounce bar imported milk chocolate, chopped
1 1/2 pints raspberry sorbet, softened
1 1/2 pints pistachio ice cream, softened
1 tablespoon grated orange peel
Chocolate curls or additional amaretti cookies
Hot Fudge Sauce

Boil dried tart cherries and orange juice in heavy small saucepan until all liquid is absorbed, stirring often, about 8 minutes. Remove pan from heat; cool completely.
Line 9x9x2-inch metal baking pan with foil, extending over sides of pan. Finely grind cookies and almonds in processor; add butter and process until moist crumbs form. Press crumbs onto bottom of foil-lined pan. Place in freezer.
Mix chocolate ice cream, chopped chocolate, and cherry mixture in medium bowl. Spoon over crust; smooth top. Freeze 30 minutes. Top with raspberry sorbet; smooth top. Freeze 30 minutes. Mix pistachio ice cream and orange peel in another medium bowl. Spoon over sorbet; smooth top (ice cream will come all the way up to top of pan). Cover and freeze until firm, at least 4 hours or overnight.
Using foil as aid, lift ice cream cake from pan; peel off foil. Use spatula dipped into hot water to smooth sides of cake. Transfer cake to platter. Garnish top of cake with chocolate curls or amaretti cookies dipped halfway into room-temperature Hot Fudge Sauce. Cut cake into squares. Serve with Hot Fudge Sauce.
Soften the ice cream and sorbet in the microwave on high in two to three 10-second intervals until just soft enough to spread. *Light, airy Italian almond macaroons that are available at some supermarkets and Italian markets.

Chocolate-Peanut Butter Cake With Cream Cheese and Butterfinger Frosting 
2 1/4 cups heavy whipping cream
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
12 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
1/2 cup old-fashioned (natural) chunky peanut butter
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup old-fashioned (natural) chunky peanut butter
1 pound golden brown sugar
4 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup buttermilk
1 1/2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
2 cups powdered sugar, divided
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup chilled heavy whipping cream
Butterfinger candy bars, coarsely chopped
Glazed peanuts

Bring cream and sugar to simmer in saucepan, whisking to dissolve sugar. Remove from heat. Add chocolate; let stand 1 minute. Whisk until smooth. Whisk in peanut butter. Chill uncovered overnight.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms with parchment paper. Sift first 4 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and peanut butter in large bowl until blended. Beat in sugar. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, then vanilla. At low speed, beat in flour mixture in 4 additions alternately with buttermilk in 3 additions.
Divide batter among pans and spread evenly. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes 5 minutes. Turn out onto racks; peel off parchment. Cool cakes completely.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, 1 1/4 cups powdered sugar, butter, and vanilla in large bowl to blend. Whisk whipping cream and 3/4 cup powdered sugar in bowl until mixture holds medium-firm peaks. Fold into cream cheese mixture in 3 additions; chill until firm but spreadable, about 1 hour.
Place 1 cake layer, bottom side up, on 9-inch tart pan bottom. Spread with half of filling. Place another layer, bottom side up, on work surface. Spread with remaining filling; place atop first layer. Top with remaining cake layer, bottom side up.
Spread frosting over top and sides of cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; chill. Let stand at room temperature 2 hours before continuing.) Press candy and peanuts onto top of cake.

Lemon Cheesecake with Gingersnap Crust 
2 cups ground gingersnap cookies
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
5 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
2 cups sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
7 large eggs
3 cups (24 ounces) sour cream
2 tablespoons (packed) finely grated lemon peel
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
Lemon leaves or twists (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Stir cookie crumbs and butter in medium bowl until evenly moistened. Press mixture onto bottom of 9-inch-diameter removable-bottom cheesecake pan with 3-inch-high sides. Bake crust until deep golden, about 12 minutes. Cool completely. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Stack 3 large sheets of foil on work surface. Place same cake pan in center. Gather foil snugly around pan bottom and up sides to waterproof.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until smooth and fluffy. Gradually beat in sugar, then salt. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time. Beat in sour cream, grated lemon peel, and lemon juice. Pour filling into pan.
Place wrapped cake pan in large roasting pan. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to come halfway up sides of cake pan. Bake cake until filling is slightly puffed and moves only slightly when pan is shaken gently, about 1 hour 25 minutes. Remove cake pan from water bath; remove foil. Cool cake in pan on rack 2 hours. Chill uncovered until cold; cover and keep chilled at least 1 day and up to 2 days.
Cut around pan sides; carefully loosen pan bottom from sides and push up pan bottom to release cake. Place cake (still on pan bottom) on platter. Garnish with lemon leaves or twists.
The pan: It must be three inches high to hold all the filling. If your nine-inch springform pan is that high, it can be used instead. The cream cheese: For best results, use Philadelphia brand. The crust: Grind the gingersnaps in the processor or place them in a heavy-duty plastic bag and finely crush them with a rolling pin.

Steamed Golden Syrup Spongecake 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened, plus additional for greasing bowl
1/4 cup Lyle's Golden Syrup*, plus additional for drizzling
1/3 cup superfine granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 1/3 cups self-rising all-purpose flour
1/2 cup whole milk
1 cup heavy cream
a deep heatproof bowl (1-qt; not plastic); kitchen string

Add 2 inches water to a large wide pot. Set a rack or a few metal cookie cutters in bottom of pot and bring water to a boil. Bring 3 cups additional water to a simmer in a small saucepan.
Butter heatproof bowl, then pour 1/4 cup syrup into bottom. Beat together butter and sugar in another bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale and fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then add flour and milk alternately in batches, beating until combined. Pour batter over syrup. Cover bowl with a large round of wax paper, then top with foil, crimping tightly around edge. Tie string around rim to secure.
Set covered bowl on rack (water should come three fourths of the way up side of bowl; add simmering water if necessary), cover pot, and steam cake over simmering water 1 1/2 hours. Remove bowl from pot and let stand 5 minutes. Discard foil and wax paper. Invert a plate over bowl, then invert cake onto plate. Serve immediately, drizzled with cream and additional syrup.
*Lyle's Golden syrup has a loyal following in Britain, where it's prized for its salty-sweet, slightly buttery flavor. You can find Lyle's in the baking aisle of many supermarkets, at specialty foods shops, and at ethnicgrocer.com.

Hazelnut Shortbread Sticks 
1 cup all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/3 cup sugar
1/2 cup finely ground husked toasted hazelnuts (about 2 ounces)
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 ounces high-quality milk chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), chopped
1/3 cup coarsely chopped husked toasted hazelnuts

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Line large baking sheet with parchment paper. Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in 1/2 cup finely ground hazelnuts and vanilla. Beat in flour mixture until just combined.
Shape dough by tablespoonfuls into 3-inch-long logs. Place on prepared baking sheet, spacing 1 inch apart. Bake cookies until light golden brown around edges, about 20 minutes. Cool on baking sheet 5 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool cookies completely.
Stir milk chocolate in top of double boiler over barely simmering water until melted and smooth. Remove from over water. Place 1/3 cup coarsely chopped hazelnuts in small bowl. Dip 1 end of cookie into melted chocolate, then into coarsely chopped hazelnuts. Return to rack. Repeat with remaining cookies. Let stand until chocolate is set, about 1 hour. (Cookies can be made 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Molasses Crinkles 
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup vegetable shortening at room temperature
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup packed dark brown sugar
1 large egg
1/2 cup molasses (not robust or blackstrap)
About 1/3 cup sanding or granulated sugar* for tops of cookies

Whisk together flour, baking soda, cinnamon, ginger, allspice, cloves, and salt in a bowl until combined.
Beat together shortening, butter, and brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes in a stand mixer (preferably fitted with paddle attachment) or 6 minutes with a handheld. Add egg and molasses, beating until combined. Reduce speed to low, then mix in flour mixture until combined.
Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Roll 1 heaping teaspoon of dough into a 1-inch ball with wet hands, then dip 1 end of ball in sanding sugar. Make more cookies in same manner, arranging them, sugared side up, 2 inches apart on 2 ungreased baking sheets.
Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until undersides are golden brown, 10 to 12 minutes total, then cool on sheets 1 minute. Transfer to racks to cool completely. Make more cookies with remaining dough on cooled baking sheets.
*Available at Sweet Celebrations (800328-6722).

Chocolate Macaroons 
1/2 cup sliced blanched almonds (1 3/4 oz)
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons confectioners sugar (1 1/2 oz)
2 large egg whites
2 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), finely chopped
2 tablespoons half-and-half
parchment paper; a pastry bag fitted with a 1/2-inch plain tip

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line a large baking sheet with parchment paper.
Pulse almonds with cocoa and 1/2 cup confectioners sugar in a food processor until very fine and powdery.
Beat egg whites with a pinch of salt in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until they hold soft peaks, then add remaining 2 tablespoons confectioners sugar, a little at a time, beating until whites just hold stiff peaks.
Fold one third of almond mixture into whites with a rubber spatula, then fold in remaining almond mixture gently but thoroughly.
Transfer batter to pastry bag and pipe 24 (1 1/2-inch-wide) rounds (1/3 inch thick) about 1 inch apart onto baking sheet. Tap down any peaks with a finger dipped in cold water. Bake until macaroons are puffed and edges are slightly darker, 15 to 18 minutes. Cool on baking sheet on a rack 20 minutes.
While macaroons bake, heat chocolate and half-and-half in a 1-quart heavy saucepan over low heat, stirring constantly, until mixture is smooth and chocolate is completely melted. Cool to room temperature.
When macaroons are cool, spoon chocolate filling into a small resealable plastic bag and seal bag, forcing out excess air. Make a tiny snip off 1 bottom corner of bag with scissors to form a 1/8-inch hole.
Pipe a small mound (1 teaspoon) of chocolate filling onto flat sides of 12 macaroons, then top with remaining 12 macaroons to form sandwich cookies, pressing flat sides together gently. (You may have some filling left over.)

Milk Chocolate Mousse Cake with Hazelnut Crunch Crust 
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup sifted all purpose flour (sifted, then measured)
1/3 cup sifted unsweetened cocoa powder (preferably Dutch-process; sifted, then measured)
4 large eggs
2/3 cup sugar
5 ounces imported gianduja bars (hazelnut-flavored milk chocolate, such as Callebaut), chopped
1 cup crisp rice cereal
1/3 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked, finely chopped*
10 ounces imported gianduja bars (hazelnut-flavored milk chocolate, such as Callebaut), chopped
1 1/4 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
1/8 teaspoon (scant) salt
3 tablespoons water
3 tablespoons Tuaca (sweet citrus-flavored liqueur) or Frangelico (hazelnut-flavored liqueur)
Additional unsweetened cocoa powder
Powdered sugar

Position rack in bottom third of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line bottom of 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with parchment paper. Melt butter in saucepan over medium heat. Remove from heat. Spoon off foam from top of butter and discard. Spoon clear yellow butter into small metal bowl, leaving water and milk solids in bottom of pan. Add vanilla to butter in bowl; set clarified butter aside.
Sift flour and cocoa powder together 3 times into medium bowl. Whisk eggs and sugar in large metal bowl to blend. Place bowl with egg mixture in large skillet of barely simmering water; whisk constantly until egg mixture is lukewarm (105 degrees F), about 2 minutes. Remove bowl from water. Place bowl with clarified butter in hot water in same skillet over low heat to keep warm.
Using electric mixer, beat egg mixture until cool and tripled in volume, about 5 minutes. Sift 1/3 of flour-cocoa mixture over egg mixture and gently fold in with rubber spatula. Fold in remaining flour-cocoa mixture in 2 more additions. Fold 1 cup of cake batter into warm clarified butter until incorporated. Using rubber spatula, gently fold butter-cake batter mixture into remaining cake batter.
Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean and top springs back slightly when gently pressed, about 30 minutes. Cool completely in pan on rack. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; store at room temperature.)
Run knife between pan sides and cake to loosen. Invert cake onto rack; remove parchment. Using long serrated knife, trim top of cake horizontally, forming 3/4-inch-high cake layer. Using bottom of 8-inch-diameter springform pan as guide, trim around sides of cake to form 8-inch round cake. Set cake aside.
Line bottom of 8-inch-diameter springform pan with parchment paper. Pour enough water into large skillet to reach depth of 1 inch; bring to simmer. Remove skillet from heat. Place gianduja in medium metal bowl; set bowl in hot water in skillet. Stir until gianduja is melted and smooth. Stir in cereal and nuts. Spread crunch evenly over parchment in pan. Place cake atop crunch layer, pressing to adhere. Chill until crunch is firm, about 1 hour.
Place gianduja in metal bowl. Pour enough water into large skillet to reach depth of 1 inch; bring to simmer. Remove from heat; place bowl with gianduja in hot water in skillet. Stir until gianduja is smooth. Remove bowl from water; cool gianduja to lukewarm.
Using electric mixer, beat cream and salt in another bowl until very soft peaks form (when bowl is tilted, cream should be fluffy but still pourable and flow to one side). Mix 3 tablespoons water into melted gianduja. Pour whipped cream over and fold into gianduja just until incorporated (mousse will be very soft).
Brush top of chilled cake with liqueur. Spread mousse over cake in pan. Cover and chill overnight. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.)
Run knife between cake and pan sides to loosen. Soak kitchen towel in hot water; wring out water. Wrap hot wet towel around pan sides and hold 30 seconds. Carefully remove pan sides from cake; smooth mousse with knife if necessary. Place cake on pan bottom on rack set over baking sheet. Sift cocoa powder lightly over top of cake. Using stencils such as snowflakes or stars, sift powdered sugar over top of cake. Transfer to platter and serve.
*Many supermarkets sell pre-husked hazelnuts. if you can't find them, here's how to husk whole hazelnuts: Scatter nuts on rimmed baking sheet and toast at 350 degrees F until skins darken, 12 to 15 minutes. Wrap warm hazelnuts in kitchen towel and rub together to remove skins.

Almond Bar Cookies 
1/2 cup packed canned almond paste* (about 5 oz; not marzipan), coarsely crumbled
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sugar
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 large egg, separated
1 teaspoon almond extract
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup sliced almonds (about 1 1/2 oz)

Pulse almond paste in a food processor until broken up into small bits, then add salt and 1/4 cup sugar and continue to pulse until finely ground, about 1 minute.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 9-inch square baking pan, then line with foil, leaving a 2-inch overhang on 2 opposite sides, and butter foil.
Beat together butter and remaining 1/2 cup sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes in a stand mixer (preferably fitted with a paddle attachment) or 6 minutes with a handheld. Add almond mixture, egg yolk, and almond extract and beat until combined well, about 2 minutes. Reduce speed to low, then add flour and mix until combined. Spread batter evenly in pan with an offset spatula. Lightly beat egg white in a small bowl, then brush some of it over batter and sprinkle evenly with almonds.
Bake until top is golden, 35 to 40 minutes. Cool completely in pan on a rack, about 1 hour. Transfer with foil to a cutting board, then discard foil. Cut into squares or rounds.
*Available at Sweet Celebrations (800-328-6722).

Coconut-Chocolate Marjolaine 
4 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup heavy whipping cream
1 tablespoon dark rum
1 1/2 cups unsweetened shredded coconut* (about 4 1/2 ounces)
2/3 cup sugar, divided
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
6 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup heavy whipping cream
2 tablespoons dark rum
1 cup unsweetened wide-shred coconut (coconut chips),* lightly toasted

Place chocolate in medium metal bowl. Bring cream to simmer in small saucepan. Pour cream over chocolate; whisk until chocolate is melted and smooth. Whisk in rum. Cover and chill at least 6 hours. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.)
Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. Line 17x11-inch rimmed baking sheet with parchment paper. Mix coconut, 1/3 cup sugar, flour, and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites and cream of tartar in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1/3 cup sugar; beat until stiff but not dry. Fold coconut mixture into meringue just until incorporated. Spread meringue evenly over parchment on prepared sheet, covering completely. Bake until light golden and just springy to touch, about 20 minutes (meringue will be soft). Cool completely on baking sheet. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover tightly with foil; store at room temperature.)
Place chocolate in medium metal bowl. Bring cream to simmer in small saucepan. Pour cream over chocolate; whisk until chocolate is melted and smooth. Whisk in rum. Let glaze stand at room temperature until thickened and spreadable, about 1 hour.
Place sheet of waxed paper on work surface. Cut around edges of meringue to loosen. Invert meringue onto waxed paper. Peel off parchment. Cut meringue crosswise in half, then cut lengthwise in thirds, forming six 8 1/2x3 2/3-inch rectangles. Cut piece of cardboard into 8 1/2x3 2/3-inch rectangle; cover cardboard with foil. Place 1 meringue rectangle on cardboard.
Using electric mixer, beat ganache just until lighter-colored and firm enough to spread. Using offset spatula, spread 3 generous tablespoons ganache evenly over meringue. Top with second meringue rectangle; press to adhere. Spread 3 tablespoons ganache over. Repeat procedure with 3 more meringue rectangles and remaining ganache. Top with remaining meringue rectangle. Chill cake until ganache is firm, about 1 hour.
Place cake on rack set over rimmed baking sheet. Spread top and sides of cake with some of glaze. Chill 30 minutes.
Place bowl with remaining glaze in skillet of barely simmering water and rewarm just until instant-read thermometer inserted into glaze registers 90 degrees F. Pour glaze over top of cake, allowing glaze to drip down sides, spreading evenly over sides. Using spatula, scoop up excess glaze on sheet; spread over sides of cake to cover. Press toasted coconut onto glaze over bottom 1 inch of cake. Transfer cake to platter. Chill until glaze is set, at least 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep chilled. Let cake stand at room temperature 30 minutes before serving.)
Using serrated knife, cut cake crosswise into 8 slices. Transfer to plates.

Ambrosia Layer Cake 
2 3/4 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
4 large whole eggs, at room temperature for 30 minutes
1 tablespoon finely grated fresh orange zest
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
1 cup whole milk
2 large whole eggs
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup cornstarch
3/4 cup water
1/2 cup fresh orange juice
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh orange zest
1 (7-oz) bag sweetened flaked coconut (2 2/3 cups)
2 large egg whites
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup water
2 teaspoons light corn syrup
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
2 (9- by 2-inch) round cake pans

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour cake pans, knocking out excess flour.
Sift together flour (2 3/4 cups), baking powder, and salt into a bowl.
Beat together butter and sugar with an electric mixer (fitted with paddle attachment if using a stand mixer) at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, 3 to 5 minutes. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then beat in zest and vanilla and continue beating 5 minutes more. Reduce speed to low, then add flour mixture and milk alternately in 4 batches, beginning with flour mixture and mixing until batter is just smooth. Divide between cake pans, spreading evenly.
Bake cake layers until they begin to pull away from sides of pans and a wooden pick or skewer comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes. Cool 5 minutes in pans on racks, then invert cake layers onto racks and cool completely. (Leave oven on for toasting coconut.)
Whisk together eggs in a heatproof bowl until combined well.
With clean dry whisk, stir together sugar, cornstarch, and a pinch of salt in a 1 1/2- to 2-quart heavy saucepan, then whisk in water and juices until smooth. Bring to a boil over moderate heat, whisking, then reduce heat and cook at a bare simmer, whisking constantly, 2 minutes (mixture will be thick).
Add half of hot juice mixture to eggs in a slow stream, whisking, then whisk egg mixture into juices in saucepan and cook over moderately low heat, whisking, just until it reaches a boil. Remove pan from heat, then add butter and zest, whisking until butter is melted. Chill filling, its surface covered with a buttered round of wax paper (buttered side down), until cold, about 30 minutes.
Spread coconut in a shallow baking pan and toast in oven, stirring occasionally, until golden, 12 to 15 minutes.
Beat together egg whites, sugar, water, corn syrup, and a pinch of salt in a large metal bowl with a handheld electric mixer (clean beaters if necessary) until combined. Set bowl over a saucepan of simmering water and beat mixture at high speed until it holds stiff, glossy peaks, 5 to 7 minutes. (Humid weather may necessitate additional beating time.) Remove bowl from heat, then add vanilla and lemon juice and continue beating until frosting is cooled and very thick, 6 to 10 minutes.
Halve each cake horizontally with a long serrated knife. Put 1 layer on a cake stand or large plate and spread with about 3/4 cup filling. Stack remaining cake layers using about 3/4 cup filling between each layer. Spread top and side of cake with frosting and coat cake with coconut, gently pressing to help it adhere.

Lemon-Glazed Persimmon Bars 
3 very ripe (very soft) Hachiya persimmons (1 1/4 lb total)
1 1/2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1 large egg
1 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1 cup loosely packed dried pitted dates (5 oz), finely chopped
1 cup walnuts or pecans (3 1/2 oz), finely chopped
1 cup confectioners sugar
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/8 teaspoon finely grated fresh lemon zest

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour a 15- by 10-inch shallow baking pan (1 inch deep), knocking out excess flour.
Discard dried green or brown calyx (stem and leaves) from each persimmon, then force persimmons 1 at a time through a medium-mesh sieve into a bowl, using a rubber spatula to press hard on solids (discard solids). Transfer 1 cup purée to a small bowl (discard remainder) and stir in lemon juice and baking soda. (Mixture will become foamy, then jell slightly.)
Sift together flour, salt, and spices in another small bowl.
Whisk together egg, sugar, oil, and dates in a large bowl until just combined. Add flour mixture and persimmon mixture alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and stirring until just combined. Stir in nuts.
Spread batter evenly in baking pan and bake until golden brown and a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool completely in pan on a rack.
Stir together all glaze ingredients until smooth, then spread over top of cooled cake. Cut crosswise into 8 strips, then lengthwise into fourths, for a total of 32 bars.

Chocolate-Raspberry Cakes 
8 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
14 tablespoons (13/4 sticks) unsalted butter, diced
2 tablespoons seedless raspberry preserves
4 large eggs
1/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter six 3/4-cup soufflé dishes or custard cups. Arrange dishes on baking sheet. Mix chocolate, butter, and preserves in saucepan. Stir over low heat until chocolate melts. Remove from heat; cool to lukewarm, stirring often, about 10 minutes.
Whisk eggs, sugar, and vanilla in large bowl to blend well, about 1 minute. Gradually whisk in chocolate mixture. Divide batter among prepared dishes. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out with some moist batter still attached, about 20 minutes. Let cool 30 minutes (centers may fall). Serve cakes warm or at room temperature.

Ginger Cake 
10 oz stem ginger in syrup*, drained, reserving 1/4 cup syrup, and coarsely chopped (1 cup); or see cooks' note, below
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup packed dark brown sugar
4 large eggs, separated
1 (8 1/2- by 4 1/2- by 2 1/2-inch) loaf pan, or see cooks' note, below

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 325 degrees F.
Butter and flour loaf pan, knocking out excess flour.
Pulse ginger and 1/2 cup flour in a food processor until ginger is finely chopped.
Beat butter and salt in a large bowl with an electric mixer until creamy. Add brown sugar, a little at a time, and beat until pale and fluffy. Add yolks, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in reserved ginger syrup, then beat in chopped ginger mixture.
Beat whites and a pinch of salt in another bowl with cleaned beaters until they just hold stiff peaks.
Fold one fourth of whites into batter gently but thoroughly, then sift one fourth of remaining cup flour into batter and fold gently but thoroughly. Add remaining egg whites and flour alternately in 3 batches, folding in same manner.
Spoon batter into loaf pan, spreading evenly. Bake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center of cake comes out clean, 1 1/4 to 1 1/2 hours. Cool on a rack 10 minutes, then run a thin knife around edge of pan and turn cake out onto rack to cool completely, about 1 hour.
*Available at specialty foods shops and by mail order from Simpson & Vail (800-282-8327; svtea.com).

Anise Sesame Cookies 
1 tablespoon whole anise seeds
2 tablespoons boiling-hot water
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2/3 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1/4 cup sesame seeds, lightly toasted
a 2 1/2-inch fluted round cookie cutter

Soak anise seeds in boiling-hot water until most of water is absorbed, about 15 minutes.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt in a bowl.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes in a stand mixer (preferably fitted with paddle attachment) or 4 minutes with a handheld. Beat in 1 egg and anise seeds with any remaining soaking liquid until combined. Reduce speed to low, then mix in flour mixture until just combined.
Divide dough into 4 balls and flatten each into a 4-inch disk. Chill disks, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, about 3 hours.
Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
While oven preheats, roll out 1 piece of dough (keep remaining dough chilled) on a well-floured surface with a well-floured rolling pin into a 7-inch round (slightly less than 1/4 inch thick; if dough becomes too soft to roll out, chill on a baking sheet until firm). Cut out as many cookies as possible from dough with cutter and transfer to 2 ungreased large baking sheets, arranging cookies about 1 inch apart. Beat remaining egg in a small bowl with 1 tablespoon water to make an egg wash. Brush each cookie lightly with egg wash, then sprinkle with some of sesame seeds.
Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until bottoms are golden, 10 to 12 minutes total, then transfer with a metal spatula to racks to cool completely.
Gather scraps and chill until firm enough to reroll. Make more cookies with remaining dough, scraps (reroll only once), and sesame seeds, then bake on cooled sheets.

Polish Apricot-Filled Cookies 
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
8 oz cream cheese, softened
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 large egg, lightly beaten with 2 teaspoons water for egg wash
1 3/4 cups coarsely chopped dried apricots (10 oz)
1/2 cup golden raisins
2/3 cup mild honey
1/4 cup sweet orange marmalade
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup water
Garnish: confectioners sugar
parchment paper

Whisk together flour and salt in a bowl until combined.
Beat cream cheese and butter in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and creamy, about 3 minutes in a stand mixer (preferably fitted with a paddle attachment) or 6 minutes with a handheld. Reduce mixer speed to low, then add flour mixture and mix just until combined.
Divide dough into 4 equal pieces and wrap each in plastic wrap. Chill until firm, about 1 1/2 hours.
Bring apricots, raisins, honey, marmalade, cinnamon and water to a boil in a 2- to 3-quart heavy saucepan over moderate heat, stirring. Reduce heat and simmer, stirring, until dried fruit is softened and mixture is thick, about 10 minutes. Transfer to a small bowl and cool until warm, about 20 minutes. Transfer to a food processor and pulse until finely chopped. Chill until cold, about 2 hours.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line a large baking sheet with parchment.
Roll out 1 piece of dough (keep remaining pieces chilled) between 2 (12-inch) sheets of well-floured wax paper with a rolling pin into a roughly 11-inch square. (If dough gets too soft, transfer dough in wax paper to a baking sheet and chill until firm.) Discard top sheet of wax paper and trim dough with a pastry wheel or sharp knife into a 10-inch square. Cut square into 4 equal strips, then cut crosswise in fourths again to form a total of 16 (2 1/2-inch) squares.
Working quickly, place 1 heaping teaspoon filling in center of each square. Brush 2 opposite corners with egg wash, then bring corners together and pinch firmly to adhere. (If dough becomes too soft, freeze it on a baking sheet for a few minutes.)
Arrange cookies 2 inches apart on baking sheet. Bake until golden, 17 to 20 minutes, then transfer with a metal spatula to racks to cool completely. Make more cookies with remaining dough and filling on a lined cooled baking sheet.

Chocolate Orange Cheesecakes 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened, plus additional for greasing muffin cups
12 chocolate wafers such as Nabisco Famous (1/2 cup)
1/3 cup packed light brown sugar
4 oz cream cheese, softened
Rounded 1/4 teaspoon finely grated fresh orange zest
1/2 cup well-chilled heavy cream
Garnish: bittersweet chocolate shavings (made with a vegetable peeler)
a nonstick mini-muffin pan with 12 (1/8-cup) muffin cups

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter muffin cups.
Grind wafers to a fine powder in a food processor.
Mix together wafer crumbs, 2 tablespoons butter, and 2 tablespoons brown sugar in a bowl with a rubber spatula until combined well. Divide crumbs among muffin cups, then firmly press onto bottom and a little up side of each cup with your fingertips or with bottom of an 1/8-cup measure by twisting measure.
Bake 5 minutes, then transfer to a rack and cool in muffin pan 10 minutes. Gently rotate crusts with your fingertips to loosen and turn out onto rack.
Beat together cream cheese, zest, and remaining brown sugar (3 tablespoons plus 1/3 teaspoon) with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until fluffy. Beat cream in another bowl with cleaned beaters until it just holds stiff peaks. Stir about one third of whipped cream into cream cheese mixture to lighten, then gently fold in remaining whipped cream until just combined.
Mound filling into crusts with a spoon (or pipe filling into crusts with a pastry bag) and serve, or chill until ready to serve.

Chai-Spiced Honey Bundt Cakes 
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups hot water
1 cup instant chai tea powder*
1/2 cup honey
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1/2 cup buttermilk, room temperature
2 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
Vanilla ice cream
Spiced Syrup

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 2 nonstick mini Bundt pans (6 cakes per pan). Sift flour, sugar, baking soda, and salt into large bowl. Whisk 13/4 cups hot water and chai tea powder in another large bowl to blend. Whisk honey, melted butter, buttermilk, eggs, and egg yolk into chai mixture to blend. Stir chai mixture into flour mixture until just blended. Divide batter among prepared Bundt pans (about 1/2 cup per pan).
Bake cakes until toothpick inserted near center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Invert immediately onto rack. Cool 10 minutes. Serve warm with scoop of vanilla ice cream drizzled with Spiced Syrup. (Cakes can be made 1 day ahead. Rewarm briefly in microwave.)
*Can be found in the coffee and tea section of most supermarkets.

Cardamom Butter Squares 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon instant-espresso powder
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 to 2 tablespoons milk
1 cup confectioners sugar
3 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), melted
2 small heavy-duty sealable plastic bags (for icing; not pleated)

Whisk together flour, baking powder, salt, cardamom, cinnamon, and allspice in a bowl.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes in a stand mixer (preferably fitted with paddle attachment) or 4 minutes with a handheld. Beat in eggs and vanilla. Reduce speed to low, then mix in flour mixture until just combined.
Form dough into 2 (12-inch) logs (1 1/2 inches in diameter), each on its own sheet of plastic wrap. Use plastic wrap and your hands to roll, press, and square off sides of logs. Chill logs on a baking sheet until slightly firm, about 1 hour, then smooth logs with plastic wrap and flat side of a ruler to achieve straight sides. Chill logs on baking sheet until firm, about 1 hour.
Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Cut enough scant 1/4-inch-thick slices from a log with a knife to fill 2 large ungreased baking sheets, arranging slices about 1 inch apart (chill remaining dough, wrapped in plastic wrap).
Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until edges are golden, 10 to 12 minutes total. Cool on sheets 3 minutes, then transfer to racks to cool completely. Make more cookies with remaining dough on cooled baking sheets.
Whisk together espresso powder, vanilla, and 1 1/2 tablespoons milk until espresso powder is dissolved, then add confectioners sugar and enough additional milk to make a thick but pourable icing. Spoon into a sealable bag and snip 1/8 inch off a bottom corner.
Spoon melted chocolate into another sealable bag and snip 1/8 inch off a bottom corner.
Pipe some espresso icing and chocolate over each cookie and let cookies stand on racks until icing sets, about 2 hours.

Bittersweet Chocolate Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/3 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
5 oz fine-quality semisweet or bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), finely chopped
1/2 cup hazelnuts or sliced almonds, finely chopped (not in a food processor)
1 1/2 cups confectioners sugar for coating

Whisk together flour, cocoa, baking powder, and salt in a bowl until combined.
Beat together butter and granulated sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes in a stand mixer (preferably fitted with paddle attachment) or 4 minutes with a handheld. Add egg and vanilla, beating until combined. Reduce speed to low, then add flour mixture and mix until combined well. Add chocolate and nuts and mix until just combined. Cover bowl with plastic wrap and chill dough until firm, about 30 minutes.
Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 325 degrees F.
Roll 1 scant tablespoon of dough into a 1-inch ball, then flatten slightly with palm of your hand to form a 1/3-inch-thick disk and coat with confectioners sugar. Make more cookies in same manner, arranging them 2 inches apart on ungreased baking sheets.
Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until they puff up and tops crack slightly, 8 to 10 minutes total, then transfer with a metal spatula to racks to cool completely. Recoat cookies with confectioners sugar.

Nana's Almond Butter Cake 
2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 plus 1/8 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3 large eggs
1/3 cup almond paste (not marzipan; 3 1/2 oz)
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 cup warm water
a 9- to 9 1/2-inch (24-cm) springform pan

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, sugar, baking powder, and 1/4 teaspoon salt in a large bowl, then blend in butter with your fingertips or a pastry blender until mixture resembles coarse meal.
Add 1 whole egg and 2 yolks to flour mixture, reserving whites, then knead in bowl until a soft dough forms, about 5 minutes. Put 3/4 cup dough between 2 large sheets of plastic wrap and roll out into a 9 1/2-inch round, then chill 15 minutes.
Transfer remaining dough to springform pan and cover surface with another large sheet of plastic wrap. Press dough (through plastic wrap) evenly onto bottom. Discard plastic wrap.
Blend almond paste, cinnamon, and 1 tablespoon water in a food processor until crumbled (paste may be hard). Add remaining 3 tablespoons water, a little at a time, processing until paste is smooth.
Beat together reserved whites and remaining 1/8 teaspoon salt in a medium bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until they just hold stiff peaks, then fold in almond paste mixture gently but thoroughly.
Spread almond mixture on top of dough in pan, tapping side of pan gently to smooth surface.
Remove top sheet of plastic from remaining dough and cut dough into 1/2-inch-wide strips, then arrange 6 strips 1 inch apart diagonally across almond mixture. Trim ends of strips flush with edge of pan. Arrange 6 of the remaining strips 1 inch apart diagonally across first strips to form a lattice with diamond-shaped spaces. (If dough becomes too soft, chill until firm.) Repair any broken strips of dough by carefully pressing them together and trim ends of strips flush with edge of pan. Discard any remaining strips.
Bake until pale golden, about 45 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge of cake to loosen if necessary, then remove side of pan and cool cake completely, about 30 minutes.

Chocolate-Covered Gingerbread Kids 
1 3/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons all purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
6 tablespoons (packed) golden brown sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 tablespoons mild-flavored (light) molasses
1 large egg
6 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 teaspoons vegetable oil
Cinnamon decorating candies or chopped crystallized ginger

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Whisk first 7 ingredients in large bowl to blend. Stir brown sugar, butter, and molasses in medium saucepan over low heat until melted. Increase heat to medium-high and bring to boil, stirring constantly. Remove from heat. Let cool 10 minutes. Whisk egg in medium bowl to blend. Gradually whisk molasses mixture into egg. Using electric mixer, gradually beat molasses mixture into flour mixture until just blended.
Roll dough out on lightly floured surface to 12x10-inch rectangle. Cut out gingerbread with cookie cutters. Transfer to baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Gather scraps and roll out on lightly floured surface; cut out additional cookies. Repeat until all dough is used.
Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, until puffed and tops are firm, about 10 minutes. Cool on sheets 5 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool completely.
Place rack over rimmed baking sheet. Stir chocolate and oil in top of double boiler set over barely simmering water until melted. Holding bottom of 1 cookie, dip top into chocolate, allowing excess to drip off. Transfer cookies, chocolate-side up, to prepared rack. Repeat with remaining cookies and chocolate. Decorate cookies with candies or ginger. Chill cookies until chocolate is set, about 30 minutes. (Cookies can be made 3 days ahead. Store in single layer in airtight container in refrigerator.) Let cookies stand at room temperature 15 minutes before serving.

Dutch Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 large egg, separated
1 cup chopped pecans (about 1/4 lb)

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter a 15- by 10- by 1-inch baking pan, then line bottom with foil, leaving a 2-inch overhang on 2 ends, and butter foil. 3Whisk together flour, cinnamon, and salt in a bowl until combined.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes in a stand mixer (preferably fitted with paddle attachment) or 6 minutes with a handheld. Beat in yolk. Reduce speed to low, then mix in flour mixture until combined.
Spread batter evenly in pan with an offset spatula. Lightly beat egg white in a small bowl, then brush some of it over batter and sprinkle evenly with pecans. Bake until top is golden brown and edges begin to pull away from sides of pan, 35 to 40 minutes.
Cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes, then transfer with foil to a cutting board. Discard foil. Cut while still warm into 2-inch squares or, by halving squares diagonally, into triangles and cool completely on rack.

Raspberry Cake with Marsala, Crème Fraîche, and Raspberries 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 cup Marsala
1/4 cup fresh orange juice
14 tablespoons (1 3/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup plus 4 tablespoons sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
4 cups fresh raspberries
2 cups crème fraîche or sour cream

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 400 degrees F. Butter 10-inch-diameter springform pan. Whisk first 5 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Combine Marsala and orange juice in small bowl. Beat 12 tablespoons butter and 1 cup sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs, vanilla, and lemon peel. Beat in Marsala mixture in 2 additions alternately with flour mixture in 3 additions. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Sprinkle with 1 1/2 cups raspberries.
Bake cake until top is gently set, about 20 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 375 degrees F. Dot top of cake with 2 tablespoons butter and sprinkle with 2 tablespoons sugar. Continue baking until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Cool in pan on rack. Release pan sides; transfer cake to platter. Cool to room temperature.
Mix crème fraîche and 2 tablespoons sugar in small bowl. (Cake and crème fraîche mixture can be made 8 hours ahead. Let cake stand at room temperature. Cover and chill crème fraîche mixture.) Cut cake into wedges. Top each with dollop of crème fraîche and fresh raspberries and serve.

Basic Butter Cookie Dough 
4 sticks (1 pound) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/3 cups sugar
3/4 teaspoon salt
3 large egg yolks
2 teaspoons vanilla
4 2/3 cups all-purpose flour

In large bowl of a standing electric mixer beat together butter, sugar, and salt until light and fluffy. Beat in yolks, 1 at a time, and vanilla and beat until smooth. Beat in flour gradually, beating dough until just combined well.

Currant and Spice Oatmeal Cookies 
2 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2/3 cup dried currants
1 2/3 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups (packed) dark brown sugar
2 cups old-fashioned oats

Whisk eggs and vanilla in small bowl to blend. Mix in dried currants; cover and let stand at room temperature 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 3 large baking sheets. Sift flour, baking soda, salt, and spices into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add sugar and beat until smooth. Add currant mixture and beat to blend. Stir in flour mixture. Mix in oats. Drop batter by level tablespoonfuls onto prepared sheets, spacing 1 1/2 inches apart. Using moistened fingertips, flatten cookies slightly. Bake 1 sheet at a time until cookies are golden brown, about 12 minutes. Cool on sheets.

Cranberry-Walnut Pumpkin Bread 
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons pumpkin pie spice
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup canned pure pumpkin
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2/3 cup buttermilk
1/2 cup dried sweetened cranberries
1/2 cup coarsely chopped walnuts

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9 1/4x5 1/4x3-inch loaf pan. Line bottom and 2 long sides with waxed paper. Whisk flour, pumpkin pie spice, baking powder, salt, and baking soda in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add 1 cup sugar, beating until blended. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time. Beat in pumpkin, then vanilla. Beat in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk in 2 additions each. Fold in cranberries and nuts. Transfer batter to pan. Sprinkle with 1 tablespoon sugar.
Bake bread until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Cool bread in pan on rack 15 minutes. Cut around bread at short ends to loosen from pan. Turn bread out onto rack; peel off waxed paper. Cool bread completely. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Wrap and store at room temperature.)

Cherry-Vanilla Tea Cake with Vanilla Sugar 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
2 large eggs, room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2/3 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1 cup canned pitted sweet cherries, halved, drained
1/2 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
2 tablespoons powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter and flour 10-inch springform pan. Sift first 5 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and 1 cup sugar in large bowl until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Blend in vanilla extract. Transfer 2 tablespoons dry ingredients to small bowl. On low speed, beat half of remaining dry ingredients into butter mixture, then mix in sour cream and lemon peel. Beat in remaining half of dry ingredients. Mix cherries into reserved 2 tablespoons dry ingredients; fold cherries into batter.
Spoon batter into prepared pan; smooth top with spoon. Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Transfer cake to rack and cool 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, using small sharp knife, scrape seeds from vanilla bean into small bowl. Mix in 1 tablespoon sugar, rubbing with fingertips to distribute seeds. Add powdered sugar and rub again.
Sift vanilla sugar over hot cake and cool. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake; remove pan sides. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; let stand at room temperature.)

Spiced Sweet-Potato Cake with Brown Sugar Icing 
4 8-ounce red-skinned sweet potatoes(yams)
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 3/4 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 1/4 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups sugar
1 cup vegetable oil
4 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup powdered sugar
3/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup whipping cream
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract

Pierce sweet potatoes with fork. Microwave on high until very tender, about 8 minutes per side. Cool, peel and mash sweet potatoes.
Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. Spray 12-cup Bundt pan with nonstick spray, then generously butter pan. Sift flour, cinnamon, ginger, baking powder, baking soda and salt into medium bowl. Measure enough mashed sweet potatoes to equal 2 cups. Transfer to large bowl. Add sugar and oil to sweet potatoes; using electric mixer, beat until smooth. Add eggs 2 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add flour mixture; beat just until blended. Beat in vanilla. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour 5 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 15 minutes. Using small knife, cut around sides of pan and center tube to loosen cake. Turn out onto rack; cool completely.
Sift powdered sugar into medium bowl. Stir brown sugar, whipping cream and butter in medium saucepan over medium-low heat until butter melts and sugar dissolves. Increase heat to medium-high and bring to boil. Boil 3 minutes, occasionally stirring and swirling pan. Remove from heat and stir in vanilla. Pour brown sugar mixture over powdered sugar. Whisk icing until smooth and lightened in color, about 1 minute. Cool icing until lukewarm and icing falls in heavy ribbon from spoon, whisking often, about 15 minutes. Spoon icing thickly over top of cake, allowing icing to drip down sides of cake. Let stand until icing is firm, at least 1 hour. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and let stand at room temperature.)

Coconut-Peach Layer Cake 
2 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup buttermilk
1/4 cup sour cream
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 2/3 cups sugar
1 cup canned sweetened cream of coconut (such as Coco López)*
4 large eggs, separated
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 cups sweetened flaked coconut
1/2 cup peach preserves
3 pounds peaches, peeled, cut into 1/4- to 1/2-inch-thick slices
1/2 cup sugar
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
3 cups chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons canned sweetened cream of coconut
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 peach, peeled, thinly sliced

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Whisk buttermilk and sour cream in small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in sugar. Beat in cream of coconut, egg yolks, and vanilla. Beat in dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with buttermilk mixture in 2 additions. Beat egg whites in another large bowl until stiff but not dry. Fold into batter.
Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on rack 10 minutes. Turn cakes out onto rack; cool completely. Maintain oven temperature.
Spread flaked coconut on large baking sheet. Bake until lightly toasted, stirring once, about 14 minutes. Cool. (Cakes and coconut can be made 1 day ahead. Cover separately with plastic wrap and let stand at room temperature.)
Stir preserves in small saucepan over medium-low heat until melted. Cool slightly. Toss peaches, sugar, and lemon juice in large bowl. Add preserves and toss to combine.
Beat first 3 ingredients in large bowl until peaks form.
Drain peach filling of excess juices. Cut cakes horizontally in half. Place 1 cake layer, cut side up, on platter. Top with 1/3 of peach filling. Spread 1 cup frosting over filling. Repeat layering 2 more times, then top with final cake layer, cut side down. Spread top and sides of cake with remaining frosting. Cover cake completely with toasted coconut. Refrigerate at least 30 minutes and up to 1 day. Fan peach slices atop center of cake before serving.
Cream of coconut is available in the liquor section of most supermarkets.

Anise Unscotti 
2 3/4 cups (or more) all purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 tablespoon aniseed
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/4 cup vegetable oil
3 large eggs
2 tablespoons anisette liqueur

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly sprinkle large rimmed baking sheet with flour. Combine 2 3/4 cups flour, baking powder, aniseed, and salt in medium bowl; whisk to blend.
Using electric mixer, beat sugar and oil in large bowl until thick. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, then liqueur. Beat in flour mixture just until blended. Turn dough out onto lightly floured work surface. Gather dough together; divide in half. Shape each half into 9 1/2-inch-long log (about 3 inches wide), sprinkling with more flour if dough is very sticky. Transfer logs to prepared baking sheet. Bake logs until tops are golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, turning sheet once to brown evenly, about 35 minutes. Cool on sheet 15 minutes. Using serrated knife, cut logs on slight diagonal into 3/4-inch-wide slices. Transfer cookies to racks and cool.

Tea Bread with Vine Fruit and Pine Nuts 
1 1/2 cups water
6 teaspoons black tea leaves or 6 tea bags (such as orange pekoe)
1/2 cup golden raisins
1/2 cup dried currants
1 1/4 cups self-rising flour
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 cup light corn syrup
1 large egg
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups pine nuts, lightly toasted

Bring 1 1/2 cups water to boil in small saucepan. Add tea leaves. Remove from heat. Cover and let steep 15 minutes.
Strain tea into small bowl; discard tea leaves. Add raisins and currants; let soak 45 minutes. Strain soaking liquid from raisin mixture; reserve 3/4 cup soaking liquid and raisin mixture separately. Discard any remaining liquid.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour 8 1/2x4 1/2x2 1/2-inch metal loaf pan. Sift flour, sugar and baking powder into medium bowl. Add reserved 3/4 cup soaking liquid, corn syrup, egg and vanilla. Using electric mixer, beat until well blended. Stir in raisin mixture and pine nuts. Transfer batter to prepared pan; smooth top.
Bake bread until deep golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Cool in pan 15 minutes. Turn bread out onto rack. Cool completely. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Wrap in plastic; store at room temperature.)

Sesame Honey Lace Cookies 
1 cup confectioners' sugar
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
3 tablespoons honey
2 tablespoons water
1 cup sesame seeds
1/4 cup all-purpose flour

In a 1- to 1 1/2-quart heavy saucepan bring confectioners' sugar, butter, honey, and water to a boil over moderate heat, stirring, and boil 1 minute. Remove pan from heat and stir in sesame seeds, flour, and a pinch salt until mixture is combined well. Cool dough to room temperature. Form and bake cookies as directed below.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Roll level 1/2-teaspoons dough into balls and arrange 4 inches apart on baking sheets. Bake cookies in batches in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, 10 minutes, or until cookies are flat and golden. Transfer parchment with cookies to racks to cool. Cool baking sheets and line with fresh parchment between batches.

Cinnamon-Sugar Plum Cake 
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup plus 1 1/2 tablespoons sugar
2 large eggs
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
5 large plums (about 1 1/4 pounds), pitted, cut into 1/2-inch wedges
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Whisk first 3 ingredients in small bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in 3/4 cup sugar. Add eggs 1 at a time, then lemon juice and lemon peel, beating until blended after each addition. Beat in flour mixture. Spread batter in prepared pan.
Press plum wedges halfway into batter in concentric circles, spacing slightly apart. Mix remaining 1 1/2 tablespoons sugar and cinnamon in small bowl; sprinkle over plums. Bake until cake is browned on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 50 minutes. Cut around cake; release pan sides. Serve cake warm or at room temperature.

Spiced-Up Apple Cake 
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon each ground cloves, ground ginger, and baking soda
Pinch of salt
3 cups peeled and finely diced tart apples
1/3 cup raisins
1/3 cup chopped walnuts
3/4 cup unsalted butter, at room temperature
1 1/2 cups (packed) dark-brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 large eggs
1/2 cup buttermilk
1/2 cup applesauce
1/3 cup Calvados (apple brandy) or applejack
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
6 strips (3x1/2-inch) lemon zest
Confectioners' sugar, for dusting

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour a 12-cup bundt pan.
2. Using a fork, combine flour, baking powder, spices, baking soda, and salt in a bowl. In another bowl, combine apples, raisins and walnuts; add 3 tablespoons of flour mixture and toss to coat. Set aside.
3. Combine the butter, brown sugar, and vanilla in a mixing bowl; cream until the mixture is light and creamy. Beat in the eggs one at a time. Stir in the buttermilk and applesauce.
4. Slowly add the remaining flour mixture to the butter mixture, beating until blended. Stir in reserved fruit-nut mixture. Pour batter into the prepared pan and smooth the top. Bake until a toothpick inserted in the cake comes out clean, about 1 hour. Let cake cool, still in the pan, for 1 hour.
5. Combine syrup ingredients in a saucepan; heat to a simmer. When sugar dissolves, remove from heat; set aside for 15 minutes.
6. Unmold the cake onto a serving platter. Prick it all over with a wooden skewer. Strain the syrup (discarding lemon zest) and brush the cake with the syrup until it has been absorbed. Before serving, dust the top with confectioners' sugar.

Aunt Rosé's Pound Cake 
2 1/3 cups self-rising cake flour
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
8 oz cream cheese
2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla
6 large eggs

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour a 10-inch (3-quart) bundt pan, knocking out excess.
Sift flour. Beat together butter and cream cheese in a large bowl with an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Add sugar, flour, and vanilla and beat on low speed until just combined (mixture will appear dry and crumbly). Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition (mixture will form a batter as eggs are added).
Pour batter into pan, smoothing top. Bake in middle of oven until golden and a tester comes out clean, about 50 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 15 minutes, then invert onto a rack and cool completely.

Crisp Shortbread 
1 stick (1/2 cup) lightly salted butter, softened
2/3 cup sifted confectioners' sugar (sift before measuring)
2 tablespoons rice flour*
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
*available in Latino section of supermarkets and at natural foods stores

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F.
In a bowl with a fork blend together butter and confectioners' sugar until combined well. Sift flour into butter mixture, tossing flours together lightly before combining with butter mixture and stir with fork until flours are incorporated. (Dough will be crumbly.) Press dough evenly onto bottom of a 9-inch metal pie plate.
With tines of fork decoratively mark edge of dough and with a butter knife score dough into 8 wedges. Prick each wedge in several places with fork. Bake shortbread in middle of oven 30 minutes.
Reduce temperature to 300 degrees F and continue to bake shortbread 15 minutes more, or until golden.
Cool shortbread in pie plate on a rack 5 minutes. With a sharp knife cut shortbread into wedges and transfer wedges to rack to cool completely. Shortbread keeps in an airtight container at room temperature 5 days.

Cherry-Chocolate Shortcakes with Kirsch Whipped Cream 
2 cups all purpose flour
1/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
3 ounces semisweet chocolate, coarsely grated
1/2 cup chilled whole milk
1 large egg
1 1/2 pounds fresh Bing cherries, stemmed, pitted, halved
1/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon kirsch (clear cherry brandy)
1/3 cup cherry jam
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon kirsch

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Line large baking sheet with parchment paper. Combine flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in large bowl; whisk to blend. Add butter and rub in with fingertips until mixture resembles coarse meal. Mix in chocolate. Beat milk and egg in small bowl to blend. Gradually add milk mixture to dry ingredients, tossing until dough comes together in moist clumps. Gather dough together. Turn out onto lightly floured surface and gently knead 5 turns to combine. Shape gently into 8-inch-long log. Cut log crosswise into 8 rounds; shape each into 2 1/2x3/4-inch round. Arrange rounds on prepared baking sheet.
Bake biscuits until bottoms are golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Cool on rack 15 minutes. (Can be made 6 hours ahead. Cool completely. Wrap in foil and rewarm in 350 degrees F oven 10 minutes before continuing.)
Combine cherries, sugar, and kirsch in medium bowl. Let stand until sugar dissolves and juices form, tossing occasionally, about 3 hours. Strain cherry juices into heavy medium saucepan. Mix in jam. Cook over medium heat until jam melts and juices form thick syrup, stirring often, about 8 minutes. Mix syrup into cherries. (Can be made 2 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature.)
Beat cream, sugar, and kirsch in large bowl until peaks form. Cover and refrigerate up to 2 hours.
Cut warm biscuits horizontally in half. Place bottom halves in shallow bowls. Spoon cherry mixture and cream over. Cover with biscuit tops and serve.

Angel Food Cake 
1 1/2 cups egg whites (11 to 12 large eggs)
1 1/2 cups (150 g) sifted confectioners sugar (sift before measuring)
1 cup (100 g) sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoons cream of tartar
1 cup (200 g) granulated sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
Special equipment: a 10-inch tube pan (about 4 inches deep) with a removable bottom

Let egg whites stand in bowl of a standing electric mixer (see cooks' note) at room temperature about 1 hour before making cake. (They should be about 60 degrees F, slightly below room temperature.)
Set oven rack in lower third of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Sift together confectioners sugar, flour, and salt onto a sheet of wax paper using a triple sifter or fine sieve.
Beat whites in mixer until frothy. Add cream of tartar and beat at medium speed until they form soft peaks. Add granulated sugar gradually, beating, and continue beating just until whites are thickened and form soft, droopy peaks. Beat in vanilla.
Sprinkle one fourth of sifted dry ingredients over whites and fold in with a rubber spatula gently but thoroughly. Fold in remaining dry ingredients, one third at a time.
Gently pour batter evenly into ungreased tube pan and bake until top is light golden, cake retracts a bit from pan and springs back when touched lightly, and a tester comes out clean, 40 to 45 minutes. Invert pan onto neck of an empty wine bottle or a large metal funnel and cool cake completely.
To remove cake from pan, run tip of a long, narrow knife between outer edge of cake and pan. Tilt cake pan on its side and gently tap bottom edge against counter. Rotate pan, tapping and turning a few more times, until cake appears free. Cover pan with a metal rack or cardboard round and invert, tapping pan firmly to loosen cake. Lift pan from cake. (It should come out beautifully, like a pillow taken out of a slipcover.)
Slice cake with a serrated knife, using a sawing motion.

Lemon Pound Cake with Berries and Whipped Cream 
3 cups sifted all purpose flour (sifted, then measured)
1 tablespoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
3 1/3 cups sugar, divided
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup solid vegetable shortening, room temperature
5 large eggs
1 cup whole milk
6 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2 tablespoons grated lemon peel
4 cups halved hulled strawberries
2 1/2-pint containers fresh blackberries
Whipped cream

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9x5x2 3/4-inch metal loaf pans. Line pan bottoms with waxed paper. Sift flour, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat 3 cups sugar, butter, and shortening in large bowl until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating to blend after each. Beat in dry ingredients in 3 additions alternately with milk in 2 additions. Beat in lemon juice and lemon peel. Divide batter between prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Cool cakes in pans 15 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks; peel off paper. Cool completely.
Combine strawberries, blackberries, and remaining 1/3 cup sugar in small bowl and toss gently to blend. Let stand until juices form, at least 30 minutes and up to 2 hours.
Cut 1 cake crosswise into slices. Serve with berries and whipped cream.

Star Anise Lace Cookies 
2 tablespoons star anise pieces
1/2 cup sugar
5 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
1/4 cup all-purpose flour

In an electric coffee/spice grinder finely grind star anise. In a 1- to 1 1/2-quart heavy saucepan bring anise, sugar, butter, and vinegar to a boil over moderate heat, stirring, and boil 1 minute. Remove pan from heat and stir in flour and a pinch salt until mixture is smooth. Cool dough to room temperature. Form and bake cookies as directed at below.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Roll level 1/2-teaspoons dough into balls and arrange 4 inches apart on baking sheets. Bake cookies in batches in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, 10 minutes, or until cookies are flat and golden. Transfer parchment with cookies to racks to cool. Cool baking sheets and line with fresh parchment between batches.

Lemon Shortbread 
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 tablespoons minced lemon peel
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Grease large baking sheet. Sift flour and 1/3 cup sugar into large bowl. Add butter and lemon peel; rub with fingertips until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add lemon juice; press mixture with hands until dough holds together. Turn out dough onto lightly floured work surface. Divide dough in half. Gather each half into ball.
Place dough balls on prepared baking sheet, spacing evenly. Flatten each into 5 1/2-inch round. Crimp edges decoratively with fingertips or fork. Using sharp knife, score 6 wedges into each round. Pierce surface all over with fork. Bake until light brown and firm to touch, about 50 minutes. Cut into wedges along scored lines. Cool 10 minutes. Sift powdered sugar over shortbreads on baking sheet. Transfer to rack; cool. (Can be made 4 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Lemon Poppyseed Cake with Fruit Compote 
1 1/4 cup all-purpose flour
2/3 cup sugar
1/2 cup cornstarch
1 tablespoon poppyseeds
2 1/4 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons butter
1 cup skim milk
2 teaspoons freshly grated lemon zest
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
1 large egg
fruit compote
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup sugar
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon fresh thyme leaves
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 cups seasonal fruit (we used 1 cup quartered strawberries, 1 cup blackberries, and 1 plum and 1 nectarine, each cut into wedges)

Have ready fruit compote.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and grease and flour an 8- by 2-inch cake pan, knocking out excess flour.
In a bowl whisk together flour, sugar, cornstarch, poppyseeds, baking powder, and salt and with fingers blend in butter until incorporated. In a large measuring cup lightly beat together milk, zest, vanilla, and egg.
Stir milk mixture into flour mixture until just blended and pour batter into pan. Bake cake 35 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Remove cake from pan and cool on a rack.
Serve wedges of cake topped with fruit compote.
In a small saucepan bring water with sugar, lemon juice, and thyme to a boil, stirring occasionally, and boil until sugar is dissolved. Cool syrup to room temperature and stir in vanilla. In bowl combine fruit and syrup and chill until cold. (Compote may be made 4 hours ahead and chilled, covered.) Makes about 4 cups.

Chocolate Raspberry Roulade 
2 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/2 cup sugar
1 ounce fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
1/4 cup water
1/3 cup Dutch-process cocoa powder
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 large egg yolks
2/3 cup sugar
1/2 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/2 cup plain low-fat yogurt
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1 tablespoon plus 4 teaspoons confectioners' sugar
1/2 cup heavy cream
2 cups raspberries
1 tablespoon Chambord if desired

Have ready meringue and cake roll. In a small bowl stir together yogurt, vanilla, and 1 tablespoon sugar.
In a large bowl with a whisk or an electric mixer beat cream and 2 teaspoons sugar until cream just holds stiff peaks. Crumble meringue into 1/2-inch pieces and gently fold into whipped cream. Reserve 1/2 cup raspberries and add remaining berries and yogurt mixture to whipped cream mixture. Gently fold mixture until just combined.
Unroll cake roll on kitchen towel and brush inside with Chambord. Gently spoon whipped cream mixture lengthwise along center of cake and roll cake around filling so that long edges just come together. Place roulade, seam side down, on a platter and chill 1 hour to facilitate slicing.
Just before serving, sprinkle roulade with remaining 2 teaspoons sugar. Cut roulade into slices (each a little less than 1 1/2 inches thick) serve with some reserved berries.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat whites on high speed until foamy. Add cream of tartar and continue beating until whites hold soft peaks. Add sugar and beat until meringue holds stiff, glossy peaks.
Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or foil and on it spread meringue about 1/2 inch thick (shape does not matter). Bake meringue in middle of oven 45 minutes, or until crisp. Turn off oven and let meringue stand 1 hour. Remove meringue from oven and cool completely on baking sheet on a rack.
Carefully peel parchment paper or foil and put meringue, flat side up, on a work surface. In a small heavy saucepan melt chocolate over low heat, stirring occasionally, and spread on meringue in a thin layer. Chill meringue until chocolate is set, about 10 minutes. (Meringue may be made 1 week ahead and kept in a sealed plastic bag in a cool place.)
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. and line a greased 17- by 10 1/2-inch jelly-roll pan with wax paper or parchment paper. Butter paper and dust with flour, shaking off excess flour.
In a small saucepan bring water to a boil over moderate heat. Remove pan from heat and stir in cocoa powder and vanilla until smooth.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat yolks and 1/3 cup sugar on high speed until pale and thick, about 5 minutes. Add cocoa mixture and beat until mixture is thick again, 3 to 5 minutes. Add flour and salt and beat 1 minute. (If using a standing electric mixer, transfer mixture to a large shallow bowl better suited to folding.)
In a medium bowl with cleaned beaters beat whites on high speed until foamy. Add cream of tartar and continue beating until whites hold soft peaks. Add remaining 1/3 cup sugar and beat until meringue holds stiff, glossy peaks.
Stir about one fourth whites into cocoa mixture to lighten and fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Spoon batter into a large pastry bag fitted with a 1/2-inch plain tip and, holding bag with tip about 1/2 inch from surface of pan, pipe lengthwise in side-by-side strips, filling pan. (Alternatively, batter may be gently spread into pan.) Bake cake 8 minutes, or until it springs back when touched lightly in center with finger. Cool cake in pan, covered with a damp kitchen towel, on a rack.
Invert cake onto towel and gently peel off wax paper or parchment paper. Beginning with a long side, roll up cake in towel jelly-roll fashion.

Hazelnut Torte with Raspberry Jam 
1 cup hazelnuts (4 oz)
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons granulated sugar
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3 large eggs
1/4 cup seedless raspberry jam plus additional (optional) for serving
Confectioners sugar for dusting

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Butter a 13- by 9-inch metal baking pan and line bottom with wax paper or parchment, then butter paper.
Finely grind nuts with flour, salt, and 2 tablespoons granulated sugar in a food processor.
Beat together butter and remaining 1/2 cup granulated sugar in a bowl with an electric mixer until pale and creamy, about 2 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until just incorporated. Fold in nut mixture gently but thoroughly.
Spread batter evenly in baking pan and bake until torte is lightly browned around edges and firm but springy to the touch, about 15 minutes.
Run a small knife around edges of cake, then invert a rack over pan and flip cake onto rack. Remove paper, turn cake right side up, and cool 10 minutes. Transfer cake to a cutting board and halve crosswise. Spread jam on top of 1 half, then place second half on top, right side up. Cut torte into 4 squares, then cut each square diagonally into triangles.
Dust triangles with confectioners sugar and serve with additional jam if desired.

Carrot Cake with Marmalade Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 cups unbleached all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 large eggs
3/4 cup vegetable oil
3/4 cup sugar
2/3 cup packed golden brown sugar
1/2 cup orange marmalade
1/2 cup orange juice
3 cups (lightly packed) grated peeled carrots
3/4 cup chopped toasted walnuts
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
2 cups powdered sugar
1 1/4 cups (about) orange marmalade
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 teaspoons grated orange peel
1 1/4 cups finely chopped toasted walnuts (about 6 ounces)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Sift first 5 ingredients into medium bowl. Beat eggs, oil, sugars, marmalade and juice in large bowl until blended. Stir in dry ingredients. Fold in carrots and nuts. Divide batter between cake pans. Bake until tester inserted into centers comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Transfer cakes to racks; cool 15 minutes. Turn out cakes onto racks; cool completely.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Add 3/4 cup marmalade, butter and orange peel and beat just until smooth. If necessary, cover and chill until firm enough to spread.
Place 1 cake on plate. Spread with 1/4 cup marmalade. Spread 1 cup frosting over. Top with second cake. Spoon 2 cups frosting into pastry bag fitted with large star tip. Spread remaining frosting smoothly over top and sides of cake.
Pipe frosting in 4 parallel lines atop cake, spacing evenly. Pipe 5 lines atop cake in opposite direction, forming lattice. Press 1 cup nuts onto sides of cake. Pipe ring of frosting around top edge of cake. Stir 1/4 cup marmalade to loosen; spoon some into 1 row of lattice diamonds. Spoon some of remaining nuts into next row of diamonds. Repeat, alternating marmalade and nuts, filling rows completely. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome and chill.)

Cherry Upside-Down Cake 
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
14 ounces cherries, halved, pitted
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs, separated
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup whole milk
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1 1/2 tablespoons powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter sides of 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Melt 1/4 cup butter in same pan set over low heat. Add brown sugar; whisk until well blended, about 2 minutes. Remove from heat. Spread mixture over bottom of pan. Arrange cherries, cut side down, in single layer in bottom of pan and press lightly to adhere. Set aside.
Mix flour, baking powder and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat 1 cup sugar and butter in large bowl until creamy. Mix in egg yolks 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix in dry ingredients alternately with milk.
Using electric mixer fitted with clean dry beaters, beat egg whites and cream of tartar in another large bowl until stiff but not dry. Stir 1/4 of whites into cake batter to lighten. Using rubber spatula, gently fold remaining whites into batter. Spoon batter atop cherries in pan. Bake cake until deep golden on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 15 minutes.
Whip cream, powdered sugar and 1/2 teaspoon vanilla in bowl to soft peaks.
Run small knife around edges of pan to loosen cake. Place platter over cake and invert onto platter. Let stand 5 minutes. Remove pan. Serve cake warm or at room temperature with whipped cream. (Cake and whipped cream can be made 6 hours ahead. Cover cake and let stand at room temperature. Cover and chill whipped cream.)

Winter Spice Cake with Caramelized Apple Topping 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
13 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
6 medium Golden Delicious apples (about 2 1/4 pounds), peeled, each cut into 6 wedges, cored
4 tablespoons plus 1 3/4 cups sugar
1 cup whipping cream
1/2 teaspoon apple cider vinegar
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
2 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup sour cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray bottom of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with nonstick spray. Line bottom with foil; spray foil. Wrap outside of pan with foil.
Melt 3 tablespoons butter in large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add apples; sprinkle with 1 tablespoon sugar. Sauté apples until almost tender and beginning to brown, about 6 minutes. Sprinkle with 3 tablespoons sugar. Increase heat to high and toss until sugar melts and apples are deep brown, about 4 minutes. Pour apple mixture onto large plate (do not clean skillet).
Melt 4 tablespoons butter in same skillet over medium-high heat. Add 3/4 cup sugar and cook until mixture is deep golden brown, stirring often, about 7 minutes (mixture will be grainy). Add cream and vinegar (do not stir). Cover skillet, reduce heat to medium-low and simmer without stirring until most of caramel bits dissolve, about 8 minutes. Uncover and whisk until sauce is slightly thick, deep brown and reduced to generous 1 cup, about 3 minutes longer. Pour caramel sauce into small saucepan.
Spread 3 tablespoons caramel sauce over bottom of prepared pan. Arrange apple wedges side by side, rounded side down, in caramel in 2 concentric circles. Sift flour and next 6 ingredients into bowl. Beat 6 tablespoons butter and 1 cup sugar in large bowl to blend (mixture will be grainy). Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then vanilla and 1/4 cup caramel sauce. Beat in half of dry ingredients, then sour cream, then remaining dry ingredients.
Spoon batter evenly over apples. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Cool cake in pan 5 minutes.
Cut around cake; remove pan sides. Cool cake 15 minutes longer. Place platter atop cake; invert cake onto platter. Remove pan bottom and foil. Replace any dislodged apples. Rewarm remaining caramel sauce. Serve cake warm or at room temperature with sauce.

Glazed Plum Cheesecake 
11 whole graham crackers (5 1/2 ounces)
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Pinch of salt
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
1 tablespoon finely grated lemon peel
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup orange juice
1/2 cup red currant jelly
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 1/4-inch-thick slices fresh ginger
6 large ripe red-skinned plums, halved, pitted, cut into 1/2-inch-thick wedges

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Combine graham crackers, brown sugar, cinnamon and salt in processor. Process until fine crumbs form. Mix in melted butter. Transfer to prepared pan. Pat crumb mixture over bottom (not sides) of pan. Bake crust until set and golden, about 10 minutes. Transfer to rack while preparing filling.
Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until smooth. Beat in sugar. Beat in eggs just until blended. Mix in sour cream, lemon peel and vanilla.
Pour filling into crust-lined pan. Bake until sides of cheesecake puff slightly and center is just set, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Turn oven off. Leave cake in oven with door slightly open for 30 minutes.
Transfer cake to rack. Run small knife between crust and pan. Cool cake completely in pan on rack, about 3 hours (cake may crack slightly as it cools). Cover and refrigerate cake overnight.
Whisk orange juice, jelly, brown sugar and ginger in heavy large skillet over medium-high heat until jelly dissolves. Add plums. Bring mixture to boil. Reduce heat to medium-low. Cover and simmer gently until plums are just tender but still hold shape, about 3 minutes. Using slotted spoon, transfer plums to large plate and cool.
Boil cooking liquid until thickened to syrup consistency, about 7 minutes. (Plums and syrup can be prepared 4 hours ahead. Cover separately and refrigerate.)
Release pan sides from cheesecake. Arrange plums in concentric circles atop cheesecake, covering completely. Brush some syrup over plums. Cut cake into wedges. Serve with remaining syrup.

Superb English Plum Pudding 
1 pound seedless raisins
1 pound sultana raisins
1/2 pound currants
1 cup thinly sliced citron
1 cup chopped candied peel
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon mace
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon allspice
1/4 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
1 pound finely chopped suet - powdery fine
1 1/4 cups cognac
1 1/4 pounds (approximately) fresh bread crumbs
1 cup scalded milk
1 cup sherry or port
12 eggs, well beaten
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon salt
Cognac

Blend the fruits, citron, peel, spices and suet and place in a bowl or jar. Add 1/4 cup cognac, cover tightly and refrigerate for 4 days, adding 1/4 cup cognac each day.
Soak the bread crumbs in milk and sherry or port. Combine the well-beaten eggs and sugar. Blend with the fruit mixture. Add salt and mix thoroughly. Put the pudding in buttered bowls or tins, filling them about 2/3 full. Cover with foil and tie it firmly. Steam for 6-7 hours. Uncover and place in a 250 degrees F. oven for 30 minutes. Add a dash of cognac to each pudding, cover with foil and keep in a cool place.
To use, steam again for 2-3 hours and unmold. Sprinkle with sugar; add heated cognac. Ignite and bring to the table. Serve with hard sauce or cognac sauce.

Nita's Crazy Cake 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup cold water
1/3 cup vegetable oil
1 tablespoon distilled white vinegar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place first 5 ingredients in 8x8x2-inch nonstick metal pan. Using handle of wooden spoon, poke three holes in dry ingredients. Combine 1 cup cold water, oil, vinegar, and vanilla in large glass measuring cup. Pour liquid ingredients into holes in dry ingredients (there will be some overflow). Using fork, stir until batter is smooth. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool completely in pan on rack. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and store at room temperature.)

Date Walnut Rugelach 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
8 ounces cream cheese, softened
3 cups sifted all-purpose flour (sift before measuring)
1/2 teaspoon salt
8 ounces pitted dates (about 1 1/3 cups)
1/2 cup walnuts
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
Confectioners' sugar for rolling out dough

In a food processor blend butter and cream cheese until smooth. Add flour and salt and pulse just until mixture forms a ball. Form dough into a log. Chill dough, wrapped well in plastic wrap, at least 4 hours and up to 1 day.
Finely chop dates and walnuts and in a bowl with your hands toss together dates, walnuts, sugar, cinnamon, and vanilla until combined well.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Cut dough crosswise into 8 equal pieces and work with 1 piece at a time, keeping remaining pieces covered and chilled. On a work surface sprinkled with confectioners' sugar using a rolling pin dusted with confectioners' sugar, roll out piece of dough into an 8-inch round. Cut round into 8 wedges, keeping round intact.
Sprinkle 1/3 cup filling in a ring around outer portion of round, leaving a 1-inch border around edge, and press filling gently into dough. Working with 1 wedge at a time, fold outer edge of pastry over filling and roll up filling in pastry, jelly-roll fashion, folding sides under pastry to enclose filling. Transfer rugelach, as formed, pointed ends down, to ungreased baking sheets. Make more rugelach in same manner.
Bake rugelach in batches in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until golden, 15 to 20 minutes total. Transfer rugelach to racks to cool completely. Rugelach keep in an airtight container at room temperature 3 days.

Chocolate Almond Torte 
3/4 cup whole blanched almonds (about 4 ounces), toasted lightly and cooled
1/2 cup sugar
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
4 large eggs, separated
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated orange zest
1 tablespoon kirsch
6 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), broken into pieces and ground fine in a food processor
Garnish: confectioners' sugar
Accompaniments
sweetened whipped cream
sour cherry compote
1 cup dried sour cherries, preferably unsweetened* (about 5 ounces)
1/2 cup kirsch
1/2 cup water
3/4 cup cherry jam or preserves (about 7 ounces)
1 cinnamon stick, broken in half
a 3-inch strip orange zest
*available at specialty foods shops

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line bottom of a buttered 9-inch cake pan (2 inches deep) or springform pan with a round of wax paper. Butter paper and dust pan with flour, knocking out excess.
In food processor pulse almonds with 1 tablespoon sugar until just ground fine. (Do not grind to point when oil is released.)
In a bowl with an electric mixer cream butter with 1/4 cup remaining sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in yolks, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in zest and kirsch. Stir almond sugar and chocolate into yolk mixture (mixture will be very thick). In another bowl with cleaned beaters beat whites until foamy and add a pinch salt and remaining 3 tablespoons sugar in a stream, beating until whites just hold stiff peaks. Fold one third whites into yolk mixture to lighten and fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Pour batter into prepared pan and smooth top.
Bake torte in middle of oven 45 to 55 minutes, or until it begins to pull away from side of pan. (Torte will fall slightly and continue to set as it cools.) Cool torte in pan on a rack and remove from pan. Torte may be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered. Let torte come to room temperature before serving.
Sprinkle torte with confectioners' sugar and serve with whipped cream and compote.
In a small saucepan simmer all ingredients, covered, 5 minutes. Remove pan from heat and let mixture stand, covered, 10 minutes. Remove cover and cool completely. Compote may be made 2 days ahead and chilled, covered. Let compote come to room temperature before serving. Serves 6.

Almond Cheesecake with Sour Cream and Blackberries 
1 7-ounce tube almond paste
6 whole graham crackers (about 3 ounces), broken up
1/2 cup whole almonds (about 2 1/2 ounces), toasted, cooled
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1/2 cup sugar
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, cut into 1-inch pieces, room temperature
3 large eggs
1/2 cup whipping cream
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
1 cup sour cream
3 tablespoons plus 1/2 cup sugar
1 pound frozen unsweetened blackberries, thawed, drained, juices reserved
1 1/2 teaspoons unflavored gelatin

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Set aside 1/2 cup (packed) almond paste for filling. Combine remaining almond paste, graham crackers and almonds in processor and grind finely. Add butter; process until moist crumbs form. Press over bottom and 2 inches up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Bake until crust colors, about 10 minutes. Cool.
Wipe out processor. Blend sugar and reserved 1/2 cup almond paste in processor until mixture resembles fine meal, about 1 minute. Add half of cream cheese and process until smooth, about 1 minute. Add remaining cream cheese and process until smooth. Add eggs, cream and almond extract and blend until just combined.
Pour filling into crust. Bake cake until just set in center and beginning to crack at edges, about 40 minutes. Cool 10 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Mix sour cream and 1 tablespoon sugar in small bowl; spoon over hot cake. Bake 3 minutes. Chill cake uncovered until cold, about 1 1/2 hours.
Mix remaining 2 tablespoons plus 1/2 cup sugar and reserved berry juices in heavy small saucepan. Sprinkle 1 1/2 teaspoons gelatin over. Let stand 15 minutes. Stir mixture over low heat until sugar and gelatin dissolve (do not boil). Pour into medium bowl; mix in berries. Refrigerate berry topping until cold and beginning to set, stirring occasionally, about 1 1/2 hours.
Spoon berry topping over chilled cake. Refrigerate until topping is set, at least 3 hours and up to 1 day.

Orange Caraway Seed Cakes 
1 1/2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
3/4 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking-soda
2 teaspoons caraway seeds, toasted lightly and cooled
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup granulated sugar
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons freshly grated orange zest
1 teaspoon vanilla
2/3 cup sour cream
confectioners' sugar for dusting the cakes

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. and butter and flour eighteen 1/3-cup brioche or muffin tins. Into a bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, the salt, and the baking soda and stir in the caraway seeds. In another bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the granulated sugar until it is light and fluffy, beat in the eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in the zest and the vanilla. Add the flour mixture to the egg mixture alternately with the sour cream in batches, beginning and ending with the flour mixture and beating the batter after each addition. Divide the batter among the tins, arrange the tins in a jelly-roll pan, and bake the cakes in the middle of the oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Let the cakes cool in the tins for 3 minutes, turn them out onto a rack, and let them cool completely. The cakes may be made 2 days in advance and kept in an airtight container. Dust the cakes with the confectioners' sugar just before serving.

Pistachio Coins 
Parchment paper for lining baking sheets
1 large egg
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
1/4 teaspoon pure lemon extract
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/3 cup shelled natural pistachios (about 1 1/2 ounces)
3/4 cup sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 ounces fine-quality white chocolate such as Lindt
6 tablespoons shelled natural pistachios (about 2 ounces)
1/4 cup dried cranberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
In a small bowl whisk together egg and extracts. In a food processor pulse together flour, pistachios, sugar, and salt until combined well (do not finely grind nuts). Add butter in pieces and pulse just until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add egg mixture with motor running and pulse just until dough forms a ball. Turn dough out onto a work surface and with heel of hand press dough together just until smooth and cohesive.
Form level teaspoons of dough into balls and arrange about 1 inch apart on baking sheets. With your thumb gently make an indentation in center of each ball, pressing down almost to bottom.
Bake cookies in batches in lower third of oven until bottoms are pale golden, about 12 minutes. Cool cookies on baking sheets on racks 5 minutes and transfer with a spatula to racks to cool completely.
In a small heavy saucepan melt butter and chocolate over low heat, stirring until smooth, and remove pan from heat. Coarsely chop (keeping separate) pistachios and cranberries.
Working with 10 cookies at a time, spoon 1/4 teaspoon chocolate mixture into each indentation and sprinkle pistachios and cranberries over chocolate centers. Let chocolate centers set 30 minutes. Cookies keep, layered between sheets of wax paper in an airtight container at cool room temperature, 10 days.

Oatmeal Date Cookies 
1 1/4 cups packed pitted dates (about 10 ounces)
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
2/3 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 cups quick-cooking rolled oats

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Coarsely chop dates. In a 3-quart saucepan melt butter over low heat and remove pan from heat. Add brown sugar, stirring until smooth, and sift flour, baking soda, and salt over butter mixture. In a cup lightly beat egg and stir into flour mixture with vanilla, oats, and dates until combined well.
Onto 2 large ungreased baking sheets spoon slightly rounded tablespoons dough about 2 inches apart. Roll dough into balls with floured hands, returning to sheets. Bake cookies in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until golden brown, about 18 minutes total. Transfer cookies to racks to cool. Cookies keep in an airtight container about 1 week.

Prune Kumquat Sticky Pudding with Armagnac Toffee Sauce 
1 3/4 cups packed pitted prunes (about 14 ounces)
1/2 cup Armagnac
1 1/4 cups water
6 kumquats
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups packed light brown sugar
4 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
Garnish: kumquats (preferably with leaves)
Armagnac toffee sauce
Armagnac ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and generously butter an 11-cup Kugelhopf pan (see note, above) or 11-cup bundt pan.
Halve prunes and in a small saucepan simmer with Armagnac and 3/4 cup water, uncovered, 5 minutes. With a slotted spoon transfer prunes to a shallow dish to cool. Boil Armagnac mixture until reduced to about 1/2 cup and add to prunes.
Halve kumquats lengthwise and thinly slice crosswise. In a small saucepan bring remaining 1/2 cup water with 1/4 cup granulated sugar to a simmer, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Add kumquats and simmer 10 minutes. In a fine sieve drain kumquats and add to prunes.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking soda, ginger, allspice, and salt. Resift mixture into another bowl.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter, remaining 1 1/4 cups granulated sugar, and brown sugar until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in vanilla. Add flour mixture and prune mixture alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating until just combined.
Spoon batter into pan (pan will be almost full) and bake in middle of oven 1 hour and 10 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Cool cake in pan on a rack 10 minutes and turn out onto rack to cool completely. Cake keeps, wrapped in plastic wrap, at room temperature 1 week.
Garnish cake with kumquats and serve with warm toffee sauce and ice cream.

Apricot-Pecan Upside-Down Cake 
5 tablespoons unsalted butter
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
7 fresh cherries, halved, pitted
1/3 cup chopped pecans
7 large apricots, halved, pitted
1 3/4 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2/3 cup whole milk, room temperature
Whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Melt butter in heavy small saucepan over medium-low heat. Add brown sugar and stir until mixture begins to bubble, about 2 minutes. Pour into 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Spread mixture over bottom of pan. Sprinkle nuts over. Place each cherry half, cut side down, into pitted center of each apricot half. Arrange apricot halves, cherry side down, in concentric circles in pan.
Whisk flour, baking powder, nutmeg and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until light and creamy. Gradually beat in sugar. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Mix in vanilla. Beat in dry ingredients alternately with milk in 3 additions.
Spoon batter over apricots. Bake cake until top is golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Transfer pan to rack. Run knife around pan sides. Cool cake on rack 10 minutes. Place plate over pan; invert cake onto plate. Gently lift off pan.
Set cake pan over low heat and whisk any sugar mixture remaining in pan until syrupy, about 30 seconds. Pour syrup over cake. Serve warm with whipped cream

Apricot Pistachio Fruitcakes 
3 cups sugar
2 cups water
1 cup plus 10 tablespoons bourbon
2 cups chopped dried peaches
1 cup golden raisins
1 cup chopped dried pears
1 cup chopped dried pineapple
1 1/2 cups unsalted shelled pistachios, coarsely chopped
1 cup sweetened shredded coconut
1 cup finely ground almonds
1 1/2 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons ground nutmeg
1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
6 tablespoons buttermilk
1/4 cup fresh orange juice
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
4 large eggs, room temperature
1/4 cup peach preserves

Combine 2 cups sugar and 2 cups water in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and bring to boil. Cool syrup completely. Add 1 cup bourbon, peaches, raisins, pears and pineapple to syrup and toss. Let stand 2 hours at room temperature.
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Butter two 9x5x3-inch loaf pans. Line with parchment; butter parchment. Drain fruit thoroughly. Mix pistachios, coconut, almonds and 3/4 cup flour in large bowl. Add fruit mixture and toss. Mix remaining 3/4 cup flour, nutmeg, cinnamon, salt and baking soda in medium bowl. Whisk 6 tablespoons bourbon, buttermilk and orange juice in small bowl.
Using electric mixer, cream butter, remaining 1 cup sugar and lemon peel in large bowl until fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Stir in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk mixture, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Fold in fruit mixture.
Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake until toothpick inserted into centers comes out clean, about 1 1/2 hours. Cool cakes in pans on racks 15 minutes. Turn out cakes onto racks; peel off paper. Turn cakes right side up.
Mix remaining 4 tablespoons bourbon with peach preserves in small bowl. Brush mixture over top and sides of warm cakes. Cool completely. Wrap tightly and store in cool dark place at least 2 days and up to 1 month.

Rhubarb Raspberry Meringue Cake 
4 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 cup sugar
1 pound fresh rhubarb, trimmed and cut into 1/2-inch pieces (3 cups total)
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon water
2 teaspoons cornstarch
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream
2 1/2 cups picked-over fresh raspberries
Accompaniment:Rhubarb Raspberry Sauce

Let egg whites stand at room temperature 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 250 degrees  F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper and draw three 10- by 4 1/2-inch rectangles on parchment (2 on one sheet and 1 on other). Turn parchment over.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat whites with cream of tartar and a pinch salt until they hold soft peaks. Gradually add sugar, beating, and beat until meringue holds stiff, glossy peaks.
Transfer meringue to a pastry bag fitted with a 1/2-inch fluted tip and pipe evenly onto parchment rectangles, filling them in. (Alternatively, divide meringue among parchment rectangles, spreading with a spatula to fill them in.)
Bake meringue layers in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching positions halfway through baking, 1 hour, or until crisp and firm. (If weather is humid, cooking time may be longer.) Cool meringue layers completely on baking sheet in turned-off oven or on a rack and carefully peel off parchment. Meringue layers may be made 1 day ahead, wrapped well in plastic wrap or sealed in an airtight container, and stored in a cool, dry place.
In a heavy saucepan stir together purée ingredients and simmer, stirring occasionally, until rhubarb is softened, about 12 minutes. Cool mixture slightly and in a blender or food processor purée until smooth (use caution when blending hot mixtures). Transfer purée to a bowl and cool. Purée may be made 2 days ahead and chilled, covered. Bring purée to room temperature before proceeding.
Lightly whip heavy cream.
On a large platter arrange 1 meringue layer and spread evenly with 1/2 cup rhubarb purée. Spread half of whipped cream evenly over purée and top with 3/4 cup raspberries. Repeat procedure with another meringue layer, 1/2 cup purée, remaining whipped cream, and 3/4 cup raspberries. Top with remaining meringue layer.
Garnish cake with remaining cup raspberries and serve with rhubarb raspberry sauce.

Lemon Chiffon Cake 
2 cups sifted cake flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup vegetable oil
8 eggs, separated
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/4 cup water
2 1/2 tablespoons grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon cream of tarter
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Sift flour, sugar, baking powder and salt into large bowl. Using electric mixer at low speed, beat in vegetable oil, egg yolks, lemon juice, water and lemon peel. Combine egg whites and cream of tartar in another large bowl. Using clean dry beaters, beat until stiff but not dry. Fold 1/4 of whites into batter to lighten. Gently fold in remaining whites.
Pour cake batter into ungreased 10-inch-diameter tube pan. Tap pan on counter or run rubber spatula through cake batter to release air pockets. Bake cake until springy to touch, about 1 1/4 hours. Immediately invert cake in pan over neck of bottle. Cool cake completely. Run knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Transfer cake to plate. Dust with powdered sugar.

Lauren's Spice Cookies 
3/4 cup vegetable oil
1/4 cup dark molasses
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 large eggs
2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 tablespoons cinnamon
1 1/2 tablespoons ground ginger
2 tablespoons ground cloves
1 teaspoon ground mace

In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together the oil, the molasses, 1 cup of the sugar, and the eggs until the mixture is smooth. In a bowl stir together the flour, the baking soda, the cinnamon, the ginger, the cloves, and the mace and add the mixture to the molasses mixture. Beat the mixture until it is combined well and chill the dough, covered, overnight. Form the dough into 1 1/2-inch balls and roll the balls in the remaining 1/4 cup sugar to coat them well. Bake the balls 3 inches apart on buttered baking sheets in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the tops crack. Transfer the cookies to racks and let them cool.

Strawberry Lemon Bavarian Cake 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup strained fresh lemon juice
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons orange-flavored liqueur
2 envelopes (about 2 tablespoons) unflavored gelatin
2 cups well chilled heavy cream
1 1/2 pints strawberries, diced (about 3 cups)
about 24 strawberries, halved, for garnish

In a bowl cream together the butter, the sugar, and the vanilla, add the flour,the baking powder,and the salt, and stir the mixture until it forms a dough. Spread the dough evenly in the bottom of a 10-inch springform pan and bake it in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 20 to 25 minutes, or until it is golden. Let the shortbread cool and chill it in the pan for 15 minutes.
In a small saucepan stir together the lemon juice, the sugar, the liqueur, and 2 tablespoons water, sprinkle the gelatin over the mixture, and let it soften for 1 minute. Heat the mixture over moderately low heat, stirring, until the sugar and the gelatin are dissolved, set the pan in a bowl of cold water (do not add ice), and stir the mixture until it is just cool but still liquid. In a chilled large bowl with an electric mixer beat the cream until it holds soft peaks, with the motor running add the lemon mixture, beating until the mixture is just combined, and fold in the diced strawberries gently but thoroughly.
Pour the Bavarian into the springform pan and chill it, covered, for 4 hours, or until it is set. The cake may be made 1 day in advance and kept covered and chilled. Remove the side of the pan, transfer the cake to a plate, and garnish the top and side with the halved strawberries.

Apricot Yogurt Cake with Orange Honey Syrup 
two 8-ounce containers plain yogurt
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons double-acting baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
2 large eggs
3/4 cup dried apricots, chopped fine
1 cup walnuts, chopped fine
Orange Honey Syrup
mint sprigs for garnish

Let the yogurt drain in a fine sieve set over a bowl, covered and chilled, overnight and measure out 1 cup of the drained yogurt, reserving the remaining yogurt for another use.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. and butter and flour a 10-inch springform pan. Into another bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, the baking soda, and a pinch of salt. In the bowl of an electric mixer cream the butter with the sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, beat in the eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in the 1 cup drained yogurt, beating until the mixture is just combined. Add the flour mixture, beat the batter until it is just combined, and stir in the apricots and the walnuts.
Spoon the batter into the prepared pan and bake the cake in the middle of the oven for 50 minutes, or until a tester comes out with a few crumbs adhering to it. Put the cake in the pan on a rack set over foil, pour the orange honey syrup over it, and let the cake absorb the syrup. The cake may be made 2 days in advance and kept in the pan covered with plastic wrap and foil and chilled. Remove the side of the pan and garnish the cake with the mint sprigs.

Orange Cranberry Oatmeal Cookies 
1 cup dried cranberries
3/4 cup old-fashioned rolled oats
1 1/2 teaspoons freshly grated orange zest
1/2 preparedBasic Butter Cookie Dough at room temperature
about 1/2 cup sugar

In a bowl soak cranberries in warm water to cover 15 minutes. Drain cranberries well and chop fine.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
In bowl of a standing electric mixer beat cranberries, oats, and zest into basic dough until just combined well. Form dough into 1-inch balls and roll balls in sugar to coat. Arrange balls 2 inches apart on baking sheets and flatten to 2-inch rounds with bottom of a glass wrapped in wax paper to prevent sticking.
Bake cookies in batches in middle of oven until pale golden, about 12 minutes, and cool on racks. Cookies may be stored between layers of wax paper in airtight containers up to 6 weeks frozen.

Banana Rum Puffs 
4 sticks (2 cups) cold unsalted butter
4 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sour cream
2 large firm-ripe bananas
12 ounces cream cheese, softened
1/2 cup granulated sugar
2 large egg yolks
2 tablespoons rum
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1/2 cup confectioners' sugar

Cut butter into 1/4-inch slices. In a large bowl with your fingertips or a pastry blender blend together flour, salt, and butter until mixture resembles coarse meal with some pea-size lumps of butter. Stir in sour cream with a fork until incorporated and form dough into a ball.
Divide dough into 6 portions and form each piece into a 5-inch square. Chill dough, wrapped separately in plastic wrap, until firm, at least 2 hours, and up to 3 days, or freeze, wrapped well, up to 1 month.
Mash enough of bananas to measure 1 cup and in a bowl stir together with remaining filling ingredients until smooth.
On a lightly floured surface roll out 1 dough square (keep remaining dough chilled or frozen) into a 15- by 6-inch rectangle (about 1/8 inch thick). With a sharp knife and a ruler cut rectangle into ten 3-inch squares. Lay squares over ungreased mini-muffin cups (2 cups will remain empty) and drop 1 heaping teaspoon filling onto center of squares. Bring all four corners of squares together and press gently to seal (filling will not be completely enclosed; this process will ease filled pastries into muffin cups). Chill filled pastries 30 minutes. Make more pastries in same manner.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Bake pastries in batches in lower third of oven until pale golden, 20 to 25 minutes. Cool pastries in pans on racks 10 minutes and transfer to racks to cool completely. Pastries keep, layered between sheets of wax paper in airtight containers, and frozen, 2 weeks. Before serving, thaw puffs and reheat in one layer on a baking sheet in a 325 degrees F oven 7 to 10 minutes. Cool puffs on a rack.
Dust puffs with confectioners' sugar before serving.

Jelly Bowl Cookies 
1/2 preparedBasic Butter Cookie Dough at room temperature
3/4 cup strawberry, apricot, or raspberry jam, strained fine

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Form level teaspoons of dough into balls and arrange about 1 inch apart on baking sheets. With your thumb make an indentation in center of each ball of dough and fill with about 1/4 teaspoon jam.
Bake cookies in batches in middle of oven until edges are pale golden, about 12 minutes. Cool cookies on baking sheets 2 minutes and transfer to racks to cool completely. Cookies may be stored between layers of wax paper in airtight containers up to 6 weeks frozen.

Christmas Fruitcake 
2 cups mixed diced glacéed fruits
2 cups golden raisins
1 cup dark raisins
1 1/2 cups dried currants
1/2 cup halved glacéed red cherries plus additional for garnish
N/A glacéed red cherries
1/2 cup chopped glacéed angelica (available at specialty foods shops) plus additional for garnish
N/A glacéed angelica
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon dark rum
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup firmly packed brown sugar
5 large eggs
1 cup blanched almonds, toasted lightly, cooled, and ground fine in an electric spiced grinder
1/2 cup chopped walnuts or pecans
1/2 cup apricot jam

In a large bowl combine well the glacéed fruits, the raisins, the currants, 1/2 cup of the cherries, 1/2 cup of the angelica, and 3/4 cup of the rum and let the fruits macerate, covered, overnight.
Line the bottom of a well-buttered 9 1/2-inch springform pan with a round of wax paper and butter the paper. Into a small bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, the salt, the nutmeg, and the ginger. In the bowl of an electric mixer cream together the butter and the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy and beat in 4 of the eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Drain the fruit mixture in a sieve set over the batter and beat the juices into the batter. Pat the fruits dry between several thicknesses of paper towels and in a bowl toss them with 1/3 cup of the flour mixture. Stir in the remaining flour mixture into the batter, one fourth at a time, stir in the fruit mixture, the ground almonds, and the walnuts, stirring until the mixture is just combined, and turn the batter out into the prepared pan.
Put 2 loaf pans, each filled with hot water, in a preheated 300 degrees F. oven and put the springform pan between them. Bake the cake for 1 hour, brush the top with the remaining egg, beaten lightly, and bake the cake for 1 hour more. While the cake is baking, in a saucepan melt the apricot jam with the remaining 1 tablespoon rum over moderate heat, bring the mixture to a boil, and strain it through a fine sieve into a bowl, pressing hard on the solids.
Let the cake cool in the pan on a rack for 30 minutes, remove the side of the pan, and invert the cake onto the rack. Remove the pan bottom and the wax paper very carefully, invert the cake onto another rack, and let it cool completely. Arrange the additional cherries and angelica decoratively on the cake, brush the top of the cake with some of the apricot glaze, reserving the remaining glaze for another use, and store the cake, wrapped in plastic wrap and foil. The cake keeps, covered, for 6 months.

Ginger Cakes with Molten Chocolate Centers and Ginger Crème Anglaise 
2 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened)
1/4 cup heavy cream
1 cup all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter
3/4 cup packed dark brown sugar
2 large eggs
1/4 cup sour cream
1/4 cup unsulfured molasses
Accompaniment: Ginger Crème Anglaise

Put a sheet of wax paper on a small baking sheet and put a 3-inch round cutter on it. (Alternatively, line a 3-inch ramekin with plastic wrap, leaving a 2-inch overhang.)
Chop chocolate and transfer to a bowl. In a small saucepan bring cream to a boil and pour over chocolate. Stir mixture with a rubber spatula until completely smooth and pour into cutter or ramekin. Freeze ganache while preparing cake. (Ganache may be made 1 week ahead and frozen, covered.)
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F and generously butter and flour four 10-ounce mini-bundt pans (not non-stick) or ramekins, knocking out excess flour.
Into a bowl sift together flour, ginger, baking soda, and salt. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and brown sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs, sour cream, and molasses until combined well. (Mixture will separate but will come together again when flour mixture is added.) Add flour mixture to egg mixture, beating until just combined (do not overbeat).
Spoon about 1/2 cup batter into each pan or ramekin and bake on a baking sheet in middle of oven 20 minutes. Run a thin knife around side of cutter and remove ganache. (Alternatively, lift ganache out of ramekin using plastic wrap.) Quarter ganache and put 1 piece in center of each cake, pressing down gently (ganache will sink into cakes). Bake cakes 15 to 20 minutes more, or until set and a crust is formed on top. Cool cakes in pans or ramekins on a rack 10 minutes. (Cakes may be made 1 day ahead and kept in pans or ramekins, covered, at room temperature. Reheat cakes in a 375 degrees F oven before serving.)
Invert cakes onto plates and serve warm with crème anglaise.

Blackberry Jam Cake with Penuche Frosting 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup buttermilk
1/2 cup blackberry jam
1/2 cup raisins
3/4 cup chopped pecans
1 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1/3 cup heavy cream
3 tablespoons unsalted butter

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. and butter and flour a loaf pan, 9 by 5 by 3 inches. Into a bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, the salt, the cinnamon, the nutmeg, and the cloves. In another bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, add the eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in the vanilla. Add the flour mixture to the butter mixture alternately in batches with the buttermilk, beginning and ending with the flour mixture and beating well after each addition, and stir in the jam, the raisins, and the pecans. Pour the batter into the pan and bake the cake in the middle of the oven for 55 minutes to 1 hour, or until a tester comes out clean. Let the cake cool in the pan on a rack for 5 minutes and turn it out onto the rack to cool completely.
In a saucepan combine the brown sugar, the cream, and the butter, cook the mixture over moderate heat, stirring, until the sugar is dissolved, and boil it, without stirring, washing down any sugar crystals clinging to the side of the pan with a brush dipped in cold water, until it registers 238 degrees F. on a candy thermometer. Transfer the frosting to a bowl and beat it until it is just of spreading consistency. (The frosting will still be warm.)
Working quickly, spread the frosting over the top and sides of the cake.

Rice Pudding Cake with Cherry-Apricot Compote 
4 1/2 cups whole milk
1 cup arborio rice or medium-grain rice
Pinch of salt
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons dry breadcrumbs
1/2 cup chopped blanched slivered almonds (about 2 ounces)
1/4 cup chopped candied orange peel
2 teaspoons (packed) grated lemon peel
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
4 large eggs, separated
Powdered sugar
Cherry-Apricot Compote

Bring milk to boil in heavy large saucepan. Stir in rice and salt and bring to boil. Reduce heat to low and simmer uncovered until most of milk is absorbed and mixture is thick but still creamy, stirring frequently, about 30 minutes (mixture will resemble thick rice pudding). Add 1/2 cup sugar and stir 2 minutes. Remove mixture from heat and cool to lukewarm, about 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 10-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 1/2-inch-high sides. Dust pan with breadcrumbs. Mix almonds, candied orange peel, lemon peel and almond extract into rice mixture. Whisk egg yolks and remaining 1/2 cup sugar in medium bowl to blend. Stir into rice mixture. Cool completely.
Beat egg whites in large bowl until stiff peaks form. Fold whites into rice mixture in 2 additions. Transfer mixture to prepared pan. Bake until cake is golden and firm to touch, about 1 hour. Transfer to rack and cool completely in pan. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Bring to room temperature before serving.)
Run small sharp knife around cake to loosen. Release pan sides from cake. Place cake on platter. Sift powdered sugar over cake. Cut into wedges and serve with Cherry-Apricot Compote.

Cinnamon-Sugar Biscotti 
2 cups all purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Mix flour, 1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon, baking powder and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat 1 cup sugar and butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add 1 egg; beat well. Add egg yolk; beat well. Mix in vanilla, then dry ingredients.
Transfer dough to work surface. Divide in half. Shape each half into 9-inch-long, 1 1/2-inch-wide log. Transfer logs to baking sheets. Beat remaining egg in small bowl. Brush logs with egg. Bake until golden and firm to touch (dough will spread), about 50 minutes. Cool on baking sheets. Maintain oven temperature.
Mix 3 tablespoons sugar and 1 teaspoon cinnamon in small bowl to blend. Using serrated knife, cut logs into 1/2-inch-wide diagonal slices. Place biscotti, cut side down, on baking sheets. Sprinkle 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon sugar over each biscotti. Bake until pale golden, about 20 minutes. Cool on racks. (Can be made 1 week ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Mascarpone Cheesecake Tart with Nectarines 
six 5- by 2 1/2-inch graham crackers
1 1/4 cups coarsely crushed amaretti* (Italian almond macaroons, about 3 ounces)
3 tablespoons sugar
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1 1/2 cups mascarpone cheese* (about 3/4 pound) at room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
2 teaspoons freshly grated lemon zest
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 pounds nectarines (about 8)
2 tablespoons sugar, or to taste
*available at specialty foods shops and some supermarkets

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and lightly butter a 9-inch springform pan.
In a food processor finely grind graham crackers and amaretti with sugar. Add butter and blend until combined well. Press mixture onto bottom and about 3/4 inch up side of pan. Bake crust in middle of oven 10 to 15 minutes, or until crisp and golden, and cool completely in pan on a rack.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat mascarpone with sugar until smooth and add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in lemon juice, zest, and extracts. Beat in flour and salt until combined well.
Pour filling into crust. Bake tart in middle of oven 30 to 35 minutes, or until pale golden and set, and cool completely in pan on rack. Remove side of pan and transfer tart to a plate. Chill tart, covered, at least 4 hours and up to 24.
Slice nectarines and in a bowl toss with sugar. Let nectarines stand, tossing occasionally, until sugar is dissolved and juices are released, about 5 minutes.
Mound topping on tart and serve immediately.

Chocolate Candy-Cane Rings 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/8 teaspoon baking powder
6 ounces unsweetened chocolate (not bittersweet)
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
parchment paper for lining baking sheets
8 small candy canes (about 2 1/2 ounces total)

Into a bowl sift together flour, cocoa powder, and baking powder. Chop chocolate and in a small heavy saucepan melt with butter over very low heat, stirring until smooth. Remove pan from heat and stir in sugar. Transfer chocolate mixture to a large bowl and cool 10 minutes. Stir in eggs and vanilla until just combined. Stir in flour mixture until just combined.
Halve dough and roll out each half between sheets of wax paper into an 11 1/2-inch round (about 3/16 inch thick). Remove top sheet of wax paper from each round and with a 1 1/2-inch round cutter cut rounds, leaving all of dough on wax paper. Cut a 3/4-inch-diameter hole (we used wide end of a pastry tip) in center of half of rounds. (Do not remove any of cut-outs from dough; keep rounds intact on wax paper). Replace sheets of wax paper and stack dough on a baking sheet. Chill dough until firm, at least 4 hours, and up to 3 days.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Finely chop candy canes. Transfer dough rounds, still between sheets of wax paper, to a work surface. Remove top sheet of wax paper from each dough round. Replace wax paper loosely and flip over each wax-paper-enclosed dough round. From each dough round remove and discard sheet of wax paper now on top (this process prevents cookies from sticking to wax paper). Lift cut-out centers and scraps from wax paper and reroll them to make more 1 1/2-inch solid rounds and rings in same manner, chilling until firm. Center rings on top of solid rounds and fill each center with about 1/4 teaspoon chopped candy cane.
Arrange cookies about 1/2 inch apart on baking sheets. Bake cookies in batches in lower third of oven 8 minutes, or just until candy begins to melt (not liquefy). With a spatula transfer cookies to racks to cool completely. Cookies keep, layered between sheets of wax paper in airtight containers at room temperature, 1 week.

Mascarpone Cheesecake with Balsamic Strawberries 
1 1/2 cups ground crumbs from purchased almond biscotti (about 6 ounces)
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
2 pounds cream cheese, room temperature
8 ounces mascarpone cheese*
1 3/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 large eggs
3 cups quartered hulled strawberries (about 1 1/2 12-ounce baskets)
1/4 cup balsamic vinegar
*Italian cream cheese; sold at Italian markets and some supermarkets. If unavailable in your area, blend 8 ounces cream cheese with 1/4 cup whipping cream and 2 1/2 tablespoon sour cream.

Tightly wrap outside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with 2 layers of heavy-duty foil. Mix biscotti crumbs and butter in bowl. Press mixture evenly onto bottom (not sides) of prepared pan. Chill 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, mascarpone and 1 1/4 cups sugar in large bowl until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time; beat just until blended. Spread cheese mixture evenly over crust in pan. Place springform pan in large roasting pan. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to come halfway up sides of springform pan. Bake until cheesecake is golden and center of cake moves only slightly when pan is shaken, about 1 hour 10 minutes.
Transfer cake to rack; cool 1 hour. Chill overnight. (Cake can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and keep chilled. Remove from refrigerator 30 minutes before serving.)
Mix strawberries, 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar and vinegar in large bowl. Let stand at room temperature until juices form, about 30 minutes.
Cut cake into wedges. Spoon strawberries alongside and serve.

Chocolate Chip Walnut Pound Cake 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3 cups sugar
6 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
1 tablespoon vanilla
a 12-ounce package semisweet chocolate chips
2 cups chopped walnuts

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and butter and flour a 3-quart bundt pan, knocking out excess flour.
In a bowl whisk together flour, salt, and baking soda.
In another bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in sour cream and vanilla until combined well. With mixer on low speed gradually beat in flour mixture until just combined.
Pour about half of batter into prepared pan and sprinkle about half of chocolate chips and walnuts over batter. Pour remaining batter over walnut mixture, spreading evenly, and sprinkle with remaining chocolate chips and walnuts. Bake cake in middle of oven 1 hour and 20 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean, and cool in pan on a rack 1 hour. Invert cake onto rack and cool completely.

Cornmeal Guava Thumbprint Cookies 
1 cup all purpose flour
1/3 cup cornmeal
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup firmly packed brown sugar
1 egg yolk
3/4 teaspoon vanilla
Guava jelly or apricot-pineapple preserves

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine all purpose flour, cornmeal, ground cinnamon, nutmeg and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat unsalted butter and brown sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Mix in egg yolk and vanilla extract. Mix in dry ingredients.
Form dough into 1-inch balls. Arrange on ungreased baking sheet, spacing 1 1/2 inches apart. Make depression in center of each using thumb or handle of wooden spoon. Fill depressions with jelly. Continue baking until bottoms of cookies are brown, about 10 minutes. Cool on rack. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead. Refrigerate in airtight container.)

Cranberry Coconut Layer Cake 
3 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup whole milk
1/2 cup water
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
2 1/2 sticks (1 1/4 cups) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
5 large eggs
1 vanilla bean
a 12-ounce bag fresh or unthawed frozen cranberries (about 3 1/2 cups)
1 1/3 cups sugar
1 cup water
2 large egg whites
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup water
1/4 teaspoon salt
a 7-ounce bag sweetened shredded coconut for coating cake (about 2 2/3 cups)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter three 8- by 2-inch round cake pans and line bottoms with rounds of wax paper. Butter paper and dust with flour, knocking out excess flour.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. In a glass measure stir together milk, water, and vanilla. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat butter on medium speed 1 minute. Gradually beat in sugar and beat mixture until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. With mixer on low speed add flour and milk mixtures alternately in 4 batches, beginning and ending with milk mixture, and beat until just combined (mixture will look curdled; do not overbeat).
Divide batter evenly among pans (about 3 scant cups per pan), smoothing tops and tapping pans on counter to allow any air bubbles to escape. Bake layers in middle and lower thirds of oven (arrange pans so they overlap only slightly) until golden and a tester comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Run a thin knife around edges of pans and invert layers onto racks. Carefully remove wax paper and cool layers completely. Cake layers may be made 1 day ahead and kept, wrapped in plastic wrap, in an airtight container in a cool dry place. (Alternatively, layers may be made 3 days ahead and frozen, wrapped in plastic wrap and foil. Thaw layers in refrigerator 1 day before proceeding.)
With a knife halve vanilla bean lengthwise. Scrape seeds into a 3-quart saucepan and stir in pod and remaining filling ingredients. Bring mixture just to a boil and cook at a bare simmer, stirring occasionally, 10 minutes. Discard pod and transfer filling to a bowl. Cool filling completely. Filling may be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered. Bring filling to room temperature before proceeding.
With a long serrated knife horizontally halve cake layers. Arrange 1 cake half, cut side up, on a cake plate and spread evenly with about 1/2 cup filling. Repeat layering in same manner with remaining cake halves and filling, ending with a cake half, cut side down.
In a 3-quart metal bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water whisk together frosting ingredients until mixture is warm and sugar is dissolved. With a hand-held electric mixer on high speed beat frosting about 6 minutes, or until thick and fluffy. (Depending on mixer and weather, this may take longer.) Remove bowl from heat and beat frosting until cool and spreadable. Frost cake and coat with coconut. Cake keeps, covered, 2 days.

Minted Berry Spongecakes 
1/2 cup water
2/3 cup sugar
1/2 cup packed fresh mint leaves, washed well and spun dry
1 1/2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 pint strawberries, hulled and, depending on size, halved or quartered
1/2 pint blackberries or black or red raspberries, picked over
6 Individual Spongecakes
6 tablespoons sour cream
Garnish: fresh mint sprigs

In a small saucepan bring water and sugar to a boil, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Add mint and simmer 1 minute. Remove pan from heat and with a wooden spoon crush mint against bottom and side of pan. Let syrup stand, covered, 20 minutes and pour through a fine sieve into a bowl, pressing hard on mint.
Add lemon juice and berries to syrup. Let berry mixture stand at least 30 minutes and up to 2 hours to blend flavors.
Peel off paper liners from spongecakes and halve horizontally. Put spongecake bottoms on 6 plates and spoon berry mixture over them. Divide sour cream among spongecakes and arrange spongecake tops on desserts.
Garnish desserts with mint.

Quick Shortbread 
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
1/4 cup cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon aniseed, chopped
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Combine flour, sugar, cornstarch and aniseed in medium bowl. Pour butter over dry ingredients and stir to combine well. Press dough evenly onto bottom of 9-inch pie plate.
Bake until golden brown, piercing with toothpick if dough puffs up, about 30 minutes. Cut hot shortbread into 8 wedges. Cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.)

Raspberry Hazelnut Triangles 
1/2 prepared Basic Butter Cookie Dough
1/3 cup seedless raspberry jam
1/2 cup finely chopped hazelnuts

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Roll out dough between sheets of wax paper into an approximately 14-inch square, about 1/8 inch thick, and remove top sheet of paper. Spread dough with jam and sprinkle with nuts. With a long-bladed knife cut dough into 2-inch squares and halve each square diagonally to form triangles. If dough becomes too soft to work with, transfer it on wax paper to a baking sheet and freeze or chill until firm.
Arrange triangles 1/2 inch apart on baking sheets and bake in batches in middle of oven until pale golden, about 12 minutes. Cool cookies on baking sheets 5 minutes and transfer to racks to cool completely. Cookies may be stored between layers of wax paper in airtight containers up to 6 weeks frozen.

Carrot-Banana Cake 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup vegetable oil
1 cup sugar
1 cup firmly packed golden brown sugar
4 large eggs
1 1/2 cups finely grated carrots (about 1 1/2 large)
1 cup drained canned crushed pineapple in juice
1/2 cup mashed ripe banana
3/4 cup chopped pecans
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup powdered sugar
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Additional ground cinnamon

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease and flour 12-cup Bundt pan. Sift first 4 ingredients into medium bowl. Whisk oil, 1 cup sugar, brown sugar and eggs in large bowl until well blended. Mix in dry ingredients. Add carrots, pineapple, banana and pecans and blend well. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted near center of cake comes out clean, about 1 hour. Let cake stand in pan 10 minutes. Turn out cake onto rack and cool.
Beat cream cheese, powdered sugar, butter and 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon in medium bowl until smooth. Spread frosting over cake. Sprinkle with additional cinnamon. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate.)

Chocolate Brownie Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 cup all purpose flour
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
2 large egg whites
2/3 cup unsweetened applesauce
1/3 cup vegetable oil
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Powdered sugar (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 9-inch-diameter springform pan with vegetable oil spray. Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted . Cool slightly.
Whisk flour, 1 cup sugar, cocoa, baking powder and salt in medium bowl. Whisk eggs, egg whites, applesauce, oil, vanilla and melted chocolate in large bowl to blend. Sift flour mixture over. Whisk batter until smooth. Transfer to prepared pan; smooth top.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs still attached, about 35 minutes (cake will come about halfway up sides of pan). Transfer pan to rack and cool cake completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and store at room temperature.)
Release pan sides from cake. Place cake on plate. If desired, place doily atop cake and sift powdered sugar over; remove doily.

Double Lemon Bars 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup powdered sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) butter, cut into pieces, room temperature
4 eggs
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon all purpose flour
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine 1 1/2 cups flour and 1/2 cup powdered sugar in large bowl. Add butter and cut in until mixture resembles coarse meal. Press mixture into bottom of 9x13x2-inch baking dish. Bake until golden brown, about 20 minutes. Remove from oven. Maintain oven temperature.
Beat eggs, 1 1/2 cups sugar, lemon juice, 1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon flour and lemon peel in medium bowl to blend. Pour into crust. Bake until mixture is set, about 20 minutes. Cool.
Cut into 24 bars. Sift powdered sugar over top before serving.

Coconut Cake 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/3 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 large eggs at room temperature
1 cup whole milk at room temperature
1 1/2 cups unsweetened desiccated coconut

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a 10- by 2-inch round cake pan and line bottom with a round of wax paper or parchment. Grease paper and dust pan with flour, knocking out excess.
Sift together flour, baking powder, and salt.
Beat butter with an electric mixer until creamy. Gradually beat in sugar on medium speed until pale and fluffy. Add vanilla, then beat in eggs, 1 at a time. (Mixture may look curdled.)
Alternately beat in flour mixture and milk in 3 batches on low speed. Increase speed to medium and beat batter 1 1/2 minutes, or until smooth. Fold in coconut.
Spoon batter into cake pan and spread evenly.
Bake cake in middle of oven until golden brown and a tester comes out clean, 45 to 50 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 1 hour, then invert onto rack. Remove paper and reinvert onto another rack to cool completely.

Candied Ginger Shortbread Hearts 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup finely chopped candied ginger
confectioners' sugar for sprinkling the cookies

In a bowl with an electric mixer cream together the butter, the brown sugar, and the ground ginger until the mixture is light and fluffy and add the flour and the salt. Beat the dough until it is just combined and beat in the candied ginger. Halve the dough, roll out each half 1/4 inch thick between sheets of wax paper, and freeze the dough on baking sheets for 10 to 15 minutes, or until it is very firm. Working with half the dough at a time, remove the top sheets of wax paper and cut out cookies with a 2 1/4-inch heart-shaped cutter. (The dough should be cold so that the cookies retain their shape.) Arrange the cookies 2 inches apart on the baking sheets, bake them in batches in the middle of a preheated 300 degrees F. oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until they are pale golden, and transfer them to a rack. Gather the scraps, reroll the dough, and make more cookies in the same manner. Let the cookies cool completely and sprinkle them with the confectioners' sugar, sifted. The cookies keep in an airtight container for 5 days.

Spritz Wreaths 
1/2 preparedBasic Butter Cookie Dough at room temperature
1 egg white, beaten lightly with 2 teaspoons water
green decorating sugar
glacéed cherries, cut into slivers

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Pack dough into a cookie press fitted with wreath disk and press about 1 inch apart onto cool ungreased baking sheets. Brush cookies lightly with egg-white wash and sprinkle with decorating sugar. Arrange cherry slivers to form bow shapes.
Bake cookies in batches in middle of oven until edges are pale golden, about 12 minutes. Cool cookies on sheets 2 minutes and transfer to racks to cool completely. (Cookies will stick to sheets if cooled too long on them.) Cookies may be stored between layers of wax paper in airtight containers up to 6 weeks frozen.

Chocolate Chip Oatmeal Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup old-fashioned rolled oats
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups firmly packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups (12 ounces) semisweet chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
In a bowl whisk together flour, baking soda, baking powder, salt, and oats. In another bowl with an electric mixer cream butter and sugars until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in vanilla. Beat in flour mixture and stir in chocolate chips.
Drop dough by rounded tablespoons 2 inches apart onto buttered baking sheets and bake cookies in batches in middle of oven 12 to 15 minutes, or until golden. Cool cookies on racks.
Cookies keep in airtight containers 5 days.

Walnut Butter Cookies 
2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 large egg
3/4 cup walnuts, toasted, chopped
Powdered sugar

Sift flour and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and brown sugar in large bowl until light. Beat in egg. Add flour mixture and beat until well blended. Stir in walnuts.
Turn dough out onto lightly floured surface. Divide dough in half. Roll each half into 8-inch-long, 1 1/2-inch-wide log. Wrap each log in waxed paper and freeze until firm, about 30 minutes, or refrigerate up to 2 days.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Cut dough logs crosswise into 1/3-inch-thick rounds. Place rounds 1 inch apart on 2 ungreased baking sheets. Bake until cookies are light golden around edges, about 15 minutes. Transfer to racks and cool 10 minutes. Place powdered sugar in shallow dish. Turn cookies in powdered sugar to coat completely. Cool on racks. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Orange and Sour-Cream Drop Shortcakes with Assorted Berries 
6 cups blackberries, picked over
1 cup granulated sugar
6 cups raspberries, picked over
6 cups blueberries, picked over
3 cups all-purpose flour
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into bits
1 1/2 teaspoons freshly grated orange zest
1 cup sour cream
1 cup milk
2 cups well-chilled heavy cream
1/4 cup confectioners' sugar

In a bowl with a potato masher mash 2 cups blackberries with 1/3 cup granulated sugar and stir in remaining blackberries. In 2 more bowls mash separately raspberries and blueberries with remaining granulated sugar in same manner. Let berries stand at room temperature 4 hours. Berry mixtures may be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered. Bring berries to room temperature before serving.
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. and lightly butter 2 baking sheets. In a large bowl whisk together flour, granulated sugar, baking powder, baking soda, and salt and blend in butter until mixture resembles coarse meal. In a small bowl whisk together zest, sour cream, and milk and add to flour mixture. Stir mixture until it just forms a soft and sticky dough and drop into 12 mounds at 1-inch intervals onto prepared baking sheets. Pat dough to 1/2-inch thickness and bake 12 to 15 minutes, or until pale golden. Transfer shortcakes to a rack and cool. Shortcakes may be made 4 hours ahead and kept in airtight containers.
In a large bowl beat cream with confectioners' sugar until it holds soft peaks. Whipped cream may be made 1 hour ahead and chilled in a cheesecloth-lined large sieve set over a bowl, its surface covered with plastic wrap. Whisk cream lightly before serving.
Split shortcakes horizontally with a fork and serve with berries and whipped cream.

Pear Cake with Grappa Sauce 
1 1/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups plus 1 tablespoon sugar
3 large eggs
1/3 cup milk
1 tablespoon grappa
1 firm-ripe Bose pears
1/2 cup raisins or chopped pitted prunes
1/2 cup pine nuts, toasted lightly and cooled
2 large eggs
3/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter
1/4 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon grappa

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and lightly butter and flour an 8 1/2-inch springform pan, knocking out excess flour.
In a bowl whisk together flour, cinnamon, and baking powder. In another bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and 1 1/4 cups sugar until light and fluffy and beat in eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in flour mixture and milk alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating until just combined after each addition, and stir in grappa. Peel and core pears and cut into 1/2-inch dice. Fold pears int batter with raisins or prunes and pine nuts.
Pout batter into prepared pan and sprinkle top with remaining tablespoon sugar. Bake cake in middle of oven until a tester comes out with crumbs adhering to it, 45 to 50 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack and remove side of pan.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together eggs, sugar, and cinnamon until thick and pale. In a metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water melt butter and stir in egg mixture. Cook sauce, stirring constantly, until thickened and it registers 165 degrees F on a candy thermometer, about 7 minutes. Remove bowl from pan and stir in cream and grappa.
Serve cake with warm sauce.

Butter Cookies with Raisins 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup raisins

Using electric mixer, beat butter, sugar and salt in large bowl until creamy. Mix in vanilla. Add flour and raisins; mix until smooth dough forms. Divide dough in half. Shape each dough half into 1 1/2-inch-diameter log. Wrap each log in plastic; refrigerate until firm, about 2 hours. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Keep chilled.)
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter 2 large baking sheets. Cut each dough log into 1/4-inch-thick slices. Place slices on prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Bake until cookies are golden, about 10 minutes. Cool slightly on baking sheets. Transfer to racks; cool completely. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Dried Cranberry and White Chocolate Biscotti 
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1 1/2 cups dried cranberries (about 6 ounces)
1 egg white
6 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), chopped, or white chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line heavy large baking sheet with parchment paper. Combine 2 1/2 cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder and 1/2 teaspoon salt in medium bowl; whisk to blend. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, butter, 2 eggs and almond extract in large bowl until well blended. Mix in flour mixture, then dried cranberries. Divide dough in half. Using floured hands, shape each piece into 2 1/2-inch-wide, 9 1/2-inch-long, 1-inch-high log. Transfer both logs to prepared baking sheet, spacing evenly. Whisk egg white in small bowl until foamy; brush egg white glaze on top and sides of each log.
Bake logs until golden brown (logs will spread), about 35 minutes. Cool completely on sheet on rack. Maintain oven temperature. Transfer logs to work surface. Discard parchment. Using serrated knife, cut logs on diagonal into 1/2-inch-wide slices. Arrange slices, cut side down, on same sheet. Bake 10 minutes; turn biscotti over. Bake until just beginning to color, about 5 minutes. Transfer biscotti to rack.
Stir chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water until smooth. Remove from over water. Using fork, drizzle chocolate over biscotti. Let stand until chocolate sets, about 30 minutes. (Can be made 1 week ahead. Freeze in airtight container. Thaw at room temperature.)

White Chocolate Truffle and Chocolate Fudge Layer Cake 
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 tablespoon solid vegetable shortening
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 large eggs
1 1/2 cups whole milk
3 cups chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 pound good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), finely chopped
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
4 tablespoons amaretto or other almond liqueur

Line baking sheet with foil. Stir chocolate and shortening in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted and smooth. Pour onto prepared baking sheet, tilting pan to spread chocolate mixture to irregular 14x9-inch rectangle. Refrigerate until just firm, about 12 minutes. Spray assorted star-shaped cookie cutters with nonstick spray. Cut out stars. Refrigerate until firm, about 30 minutes. Using small offset spatula, carefully transfer stars 1 at a time to another foil-lined baking sheet. Refrigerate until ready to use. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms with parchment paper; butter parchment. Stir unsweetened chocolate in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth. Cool slightly. Sift flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended. Beat in lukewarm melted unsweetened chocolate and vanilla. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, blending well after each addition. Mix in cocoa powder mixture in 3 additions, alternating with milk in 2 additions.
Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Run knife around edge of each pan to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely. Peel off parchment.
Bring 1 cup cream and butter to simmer in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat, stirring until butter melts. Remove from heat. Add white chocolate and stir until smooth. Whisk in vanilla. Pour 1 1/2 cups white chocolate filling into small bowl; cover and freeze until cold, about 2 hours.
Let remaining white chocolate mixture in saucepan stand at room temperature until lukewarm, about 20 minutes.
Using electric mixer, beat remaining 2 cups cream and almond extract in large bowl until peaks form. Working in 3 batches, fold in lukewarm white chocolate mixture. Refrigerate whipped cream frosting just until medium peaks hold, folding occasionally, about 3 hours.
Brush 2 tablespoons amaretto over top of each cake layer. Place 1 layer on platter. Spread chilled 1 1/2 cups white chocolate filling over. Top with second cake layer. Spread whipped cream frosting over top and sides of cake. Chill until cold and set, about 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.)
Arrange chocolate stars decoratively atop cake and serve.

Lemon Pudding Cookies 
1 cup buttermilk baking mix
1 3.4-ounce package instant lemon pudding
1 large egg, beaten to blend
1/4 cup vegetable oil
Sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease 2 large cookie sheets. Mix first 4 ingredients in large bowl until dough forms. Roll dough into 1-inch balls. Place balls 2 inches apart on prepared cookie sheets. Dip flat-bottom glass into sugar. Press glass onto dough ball and flatten into 1/4-inch-thick cookie. Repeat with remaining cookies. Bake until just golden brown on edges, about 10 minutes. Transfer to racks and cool completely. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store cookies in airtight container.)

Pumpkin-Pecan Cheesecake 
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
3/4 cup coarsely chopped pecans
2 cups gingersnap cookie crumbs (about 9 ounces)
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
4 large eggs
1 15-ounce can solid pack pumpkin
3 tablespoons bourbon
2 teaspoons vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line baking sheet with foil. Stir sugar and butter in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat until sugar melts and mixture comes to boil; boil 1 minute without stirring. Mix in pecans. Spread mixture on prepared baking sheet. Bake until sugar syrup bubbles vigorously, about 8 minutes. Cool praline completely. Break into pieces. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight.)
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Stir cookie crumbs and cinnamon in medium bowl to blend. Add butter; stir until crumbs are moistened. Press onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Bake crust until set, about 8 minutes. Cool. Double-wrap outside of pan with heavy-duty foil. Place in large roasting pan.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in flour and spices. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in pumpkin, bourbon and vanilla. Transfer to crust.
Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to reach 1 inch up sides of springform pan. Bake cake in water bath until center is just set, adding more water to roasting pan as needed, about 1 hour 45 minutes. Remove cheesecake from water. Cool in pan on rack. Remove foil. Run small sharp knife between cake and pan sides. Chill until cold; then cover and chill overnight.
Release pan sides. Place cake on platter. Sprinkle praline over, leaving 1-inch plain border at edge. Cut cake into wedges.

Ginger Crunch Cake with Strawberry Sauce 
1 cup pecans, toasted and chopped fine
1/2 cup gingersnap cookie crumbs (from about eight 2-inch gingersnaps)
1/2 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup unsulfured molasses
2/3 cup buttermilk
1/3 cup granulated sugar
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1 large egg, beaten lightly
3 cups well-chilled heavy cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 tablespoons granulated sugar
1 pint strawberries
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
Garnish: strawberries, with leaves and blossoms if desired (not recommended for eating)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease three 8- by 2-inch cake pans.
In a small bowl combine crunch topping ingredients, stirring until combined. Divide topping among pans and press evenly onto bottom.
In a large bowl whisk together flour, baking soda, ginger, cinnamon, and salt. Add remaining ginger cake ingredients and with an electric mixer beat on high speed 2 minutes. Carefully spread batter over crunch topping in pans and bake in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of pans in oven halfway through baking, 20 minutes, or until a tester inserted in center of each layer comes out clean.
Immediately invert cake layers onto racks lined with wax paper and cool completely. Cake layers may be made 2 weeks ahead and frozen, wrapped separately in plastic wrap. Thaw layers in refrigerator before proceeding with recipe.
In a chilled bowl with chilled beaters of an electric mixer beat 2 cups cream with vanilla and 2 tablespoons granulated sugar until it just holds stiff peaks.
Arrange 1 cake layer, crunch side up, on a cake plate and spread with a heaping cup whipped cream. Repeat with another cake layer and another heaping cup whipped cream and top with third cake layer, crunch side up. Leaving top plain, spread remaining whipped cream on side of cake to coat (a final coating will be added later). Chill cake, covered loosely with plastic wrap, at least 4 hours (to facilitate slicing) and up to 24.
Hull strawberries and slice half of them. In a bowl with a potato masher mash sliced berries with lemon juice and remaining 2 tablespoons granulated sugar. In a food processor purée remaining berries and strain through a fine sieve into bowl with mashed berry mixture. Sauce may be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered.
In a chilled bowl with chilled beaters of an electric mixer, beat remaining cup cream until it just holds stiff peaks and spread decoratively on side of cake. Arrange some whole strawberries on top of cake and garnish plate with additional whole strawberries.
Serve cake with strawberry sauce.

Red, White, and Blue Cheesecake with Chocolate Cookie Crust 
28 chocolate wafers, ground fine in a blender or food processor (about 1 1/2 cups crumbs)
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, melted
four 8-ounces packages cream cheese, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
5 large eggs
1/2 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon freshly grated orange zest
1 teaspoon freshly grated lemon zest
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
about 1 1/2 cups raspberries
about 1 1/2 cups blueberries

In a bowl stir together the cookie crumbs and the butter until the mixture is combined well and pat the mixture onto the bottom and 1/2 inch up the side of a 9 1/2-inch springform pan. Chill the crust for 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat the cream cheese until it is light and fluffy, add the sugar gradually, beating, and beat the mixture until it is combined well. Beat in the flour, add the eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in the sour cream, the zests, the salt, and the vanilla, beating the filling until it is combined well.
Pour the filling into the crust and bake the cheesecake in a foil-lined shallow baking pan in the middle of the oven for 1 hour and 10 minutes. (The cheesecake will not be completely set; it will set as it cools.) Turn the oven off and let the cheesecake stand in the oven with the oven door propped open about 6 inches until it is cooled completely and remove the side of the pan.
Arrange the raspberries on top of the cheesecake in a star shape and arrange the blueberries around the star to cover the top of the cheesecake.

Cinnamon Nutmeg Tuiles 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
1/4 cup packed light brown sugar
3 tablespoons light corn syrup
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. and have ready a rolling pin.
In a saucepan melt butter with brown sugar and corn syrup over moderate heat, stirring occasionally until sugar is dissolved. Remove pan from heat and stir in flour, cinnamon, nutmeg, and a pinch salt until smooth.
Drop 6 rounded 1/2-teaspoons batter about 3 inches apart onto an ungreased baking sheet. Bake cookies in middle of oven 6 minutes, or until golden.
Remove 1 cookie from baking sheet with a thin metal spatula and immediately drape over a rolling pin to create a curved shape. Cool cookie completely on rolling pin and transfer to an airtight container. Make more cookies with remaining batter and form into tuiles in same manner. (If cookies become too brittle to drape over rolling pin, return baking sheet to oven a few seconds to allow cookies to soften.) Tuiles keep 5 days in an airtight container at cool room temperature.

Candied Holiday Fruitcake 
3 cups chopped pecans (about 12 ounces)
2 cups chopped candied pineapple (about 10 ounces)
3/4 cup chopped candied cherries (about 5 ounces)
1/3 cup chopped candied orange peel (about 1 1/2 ounces)
1 3/4 cups plus 3 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 cup (2 sticks) butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
5 eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon lemon extract
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
Pinch of salt
Powdered sugar

Position rack in lowest third of oven and preheat to 250 degrees F. Grease and flour 12-cup bundt pan or tube cake pan. In large bowl, mix pecans and fruits with 3 tablespoon flour. In another large bowl, cream butter with sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Stir in vanilla and lemon extract. Sift 1 3/4 cups flour with baking powder and salt. Add dry ingredients to batter; stir until blended. Mix fruit mixture into batter.
Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake until golden brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 2 1/2 hours. Cool in pan on rack 15 minutes. Turn out onto rack and cool. (Can be prepared 2 weeks ahead; wrap in foil and store at room temperature.) Dust with powdered sugar.

Maple-Cinnamon Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/2 cup unsweetened applesauce
1/2 cup pure maple syrup
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups cake flour
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Spray 8 x 8 x 2-inch baking pan with vegetable oil spray. Whisk applesauce, syrup, oil, egg and vanilla in large bowl until blended. Sift flour, brown sugar, baking powder, cinnamon, baking soda and salt into applesauce mixture. Stir to blend. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake cake until edges pull away from sides of pan and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 28 minutes. Transfer pan to rack and cool cake completely. Cut into 12 pieces and serve.

Raspberry Whipped Cream Truffle Cake 
1 cup whipping cream
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
2 tablespoons sugar
12 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
2 cups cake flour
2/3 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unslated butter, room temperature
3 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups buttermilk
1 3/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons chilled whipping cream
3 tablespoons powdered sugar
2 teaspoons framboise eau-de-vie (clear raspberry brandy; optional)
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups fresh raspberries or frozen unsweetened, thawed, drained
Additional raspberries (optional)

Combine cream, butter and sugar in heavy large saucepan. Stir over medium heat until butter melts, sugar dissolves and mixture comes to simmer. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and vanilla. Stir until chocolate melts and glaze is smooth. Let stand until thick enough to spread, stirring occasionally, about 1 hour. (Can be made 1 week ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Before using, whisk over low heat just until spreadable.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line pan bottoms with waxed paper; butter paper. Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted. Remove from over water.
Sift flour, cocoa, baking soda and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating to blend after each addition and occasionally scraping down sides of bowl. Mix in melted chocolate and vanilla. Mix in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk in 3 additions each. Transfer batter to prepared pans, dividing equally.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks; peel off waxed paper. Cool cakes completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap tightly and store at room temperature.)
Using electric mixer, beat cream, powdered sugar, framboise (if desired) and vanilla in large bowl until very firm peaks form. Transfer 1 1/2 cups whipped cream mixture to small bowl and chill. Fold 2 cups raspberries into remaining whipped cream mixture.
Cut each cake layer horizontally in half. Using large tart pan bottom as aid, transfer 1 layer to platter. Slide waxed paper strips under edges of cake. Spread 2/3 cup chocolate glaze over cake. Spread half of raspberry whipped cream over. Place second cake layer on work surface. Spread 2/3 cup glaze, then remaining raspberry cream over. Place atop first layer, using tart pan as aid. Top with third cake layer, pressing lightly to adhere (reserve fourth layer for another use). Smooth filling at edges of cake. Spread thin layer of glaze over sides of cake. Chill until glaze sets, about 10 minutes.
Spread remaining glaze over sides of cake. Spread or pipe reserved 1 1/2 cups whipped cream mixture over top of cake. Garnish with additional berries, if desired. Gently remove waxed paper from under cake. Cover cake with cake dome; chill at least 1 hour and up to 8 hours.

White Chocolate Layer Cake With Apricot Filling and White Chocolate Buttercream 
8 ounces imported white chocolate, chopped
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
2 1/4 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
10 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/3 cups sugar
4 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups whole milk
1 1/4 pounds imported white chocolate, chopped
1 3/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups powdered sugar, sifted
1/2 cup water
1/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 pounds apricots, pitted, thinly sliced
1 cup walnuts, finely chopped
1/4 cup apricot preserves, melted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch round cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Butter two 9-inch parchment paper rounds and place in pans, buttered side up. Stir white chocolate in top of double boiler set over barely simmering water until melted and smooth. Leave white chocolate in pot; turn off heat. Sift flour, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla. Add dry ingredients alternately with milk in 3 additions, blending well after each addition. Add warm white chocolate and beat just until blended.
Divide batter equally between pans, smoothing tops with spatula. Bake cakes until tester inserted into centers comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 20 minutes (cakes will fall). Run small sharp knife around cake pan sides. Turn cakes out onto cardboard round or tart pan bottom; peel off parchment. Turn cakes right side up onto racks and cool completely.
Stir white chocolate in top of double boiler over barely simmering water until melted and smooth. Remove white chocolate from over water. Let stand until cool but not set, about 20 minutes. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in white chocolate and vanilla, scraping down sides of bowl occasionally. Beat in powdered sugar. Cover and refrigerate until thick enough to spread, about 45 minutes (frosting will be very soft).
Boil 1/2 cup water and sugar in small saucepan over medium heat, stirring to dissolve sugar. Cool syrup.
Using serrated knife, cut each cake layer horizontally in half. Place 1 layer, cut side up, on 9-inch cardboard cake round or removable bottom of 9-inch tart pan and brush with 2 tablespoons sugar syrup. Spread 6 tablespoons buttercream over cake. Cover buttercream with single layer of sliced apricots. Spread 3 tablespoons buttercream over apricots; top with second cake layer, cut side up. Brush with 2 tablespoons sugar syrup, 6 tablespoons buttercream, apricots, and 3 tablespoons buttercream. Top with third cake layer, cut side up. Brush with 2 tablespoons syrup. Spread 6 tablespoons buttercream over cake; cover with apricots. Spread 3 tablespoons buttercream over apricots. Top with fourth layer, cut side down. Spread 1 cup buttercream over top and sides of cake (layer will be thin). Chill 1 hour. Spread remaining buttercream over top and sides of cake. Press chopped walnuts onto sides of cake. Cover top with remaining sliced apricots. Brush apricots with apricot preserves. Chill cake 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and keep chilled. Let stand 3 hours at room temperature before serving.)

Individual Spongecakes 
2 large eggs
1/3 cup sugar
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon cornstarch
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled slightly

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. and line nine 1/2-cup muffin tins with paper liners.
In a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water whisk together eggs and sugar until sugar is dissolved, 1 to 2 minutes. Remove top of double boiler or bowl from heat and with a hand-held electric mixer beat mixture at moderately high speed until doubled in volume, about 3 minutes.
Sift flour, cornstarch, and a pinch salt over egg mixture and fold in gently but thoroughly. Drizzle butter over batter and fold in gently but thoroughly.
Divide batter among muffin tins and bake in middle of oven 12 to 15 minutes, or until pale golden. Cool spongecakes in tins on a rack 10 minutes. Remove spongecakes from tins and cool completely on rack. Spongecakes may be made 1 day ahead and kept in an airtight container at room temperature.

Banana Coconut Crunch Cake 
1/2 cup sweetened flaked coconut
1 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
1/2 cup mashed banana (about 1 large)
3 tablespoons crème fraîche or sour cream
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup water
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
2 tablespoons dark rum
1/2 pound cream cheese, softened
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar, sifted
1 teaspoon vanilla
2/3 cup crisp banana chips

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter an 8-inch square, 2-inch deep baking pan and line bottom with wax paper. Butter paper and dust with flour, knocking out excess flour.
On a baking sheet toast coconut in the middle of the oven, stirring once, until golden, about 6 minutes.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. In a small bowl whisk together eggs, bananas, crème fraîche or sour cream, and vanilla.
In a bowl of a standing electric mixer beat together butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in flour and egg mixtures alternately, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating after each addition until batter is smooth, and fold in coconut.
Turn batter into pan, smoothing top, and bake in middle of oven until a tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 10 minutes. Run a thin knife around edges of pan and invert cake onto rack. Remove wax paper carefully and cool cake completely. Cake layer may be made 3 days ahead and chilled, wrapped in plastic wrap and foil.
In a small saucepan bring water and sugar to a boil over moderate heat, stirring until sugar is dissolved, and simmer 1 minute. Stir in rum and simmer 1 minute. Cool syrup completely. Syrup may be made 3 days ahead and chilled, covered.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together cream cheese and butter until light and fluffy. Add confectioners' sugar, 1/2 cup at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in vanilla and pinch salt. In a food processor coarsely grind banana chips and stir into frosting.
With serrated knife halve cake layer horizontally and with pastry brush dab cut sides with rum syrup, using it all. Spread half of frosting on cut side of bottom layer and arrange top layer, cut side down, on frosting. Spread remaining frosting on top of cake. Cake may be assembled 3 hours ahead and chilled, covered with an overturned bowl or in a cake keeper.

Chocolate Genoise with Chocolate-Peppermint Ganache 
1/3 cup water
1/3 cup sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons dark crème de cacao
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons cake flour
1/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
5 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled
36 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
2 1/2 cups whipping cream
1/4 cup light corn syrup
1 1/2 teaspoons peppermint extract
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Chocolate curls (about 6 ounces)

Stir water and sugar in small saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat; boil. Remove from heat. Stir in creme de cacao and vanilla. (Can be made 1 week ahead. Cover; chill.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides; line bottom with parchment paper. Cover cake rack with paper towel; spray paper towel with nonstick spray.
Sift flour, cocoa powder and baking soda into small bowl 3 times. Combine eggs, egg yolk, sugar and salt in large stainless steel bowl. {Step One} Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water (do not let bottom of bowl touch water). Whisk until mixture is just warm to touch (thermometer will register 110 degrees F), about 2 minutes. Remove mixture from over water. {Step Two} Using electric mixer, beat until mixture triples in volume and falls in heavy ribbon when beaters are lifted, about 5 minutes. Beat in vanilla. Sift flour mixture over in 3 additions; fold gently to incorporate each time. Drizzle butter over and fold in (do not overmix or batter will deflate). Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cut around pan sides; release sides. Turn cake out onto towel-covered rack; peel off parchment. Cool. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap; store at room temperature.)
Place chocolate in large bowl. Bring cream to boil in small saucepan. Pour cream over chocolate. {Step Three} Add corn syrup and extracts; whisk until smooth. Cool to room temperature, stirring occasionally.
Transfer 3 cups ganache to medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat until very thick and light colored, about 12 minutes.
Using long serrated knife, cut genoise horizontally into 3 layers. Place 1 cake layer on cardboard round or pan bottom. Brush cake with 3 tablespoons syrup. Spread 1/3 of whipped ganache over. Repeat 2 more times with remaining cake layers, syrup and whipped ganache. Spread 1 cup unwhipped ganache thinly over top and sides of cake. Refrigerate cake until coating sets, about 10 minutes.
If necessary, warm remaining un-whipped ganache until just pourable. Place cake on rack set over sheet of foil. Pour ganache over cake as glaze, spreading to cover top and sides smoothly. Chill until glaze begins to set, about 30 minutes. Place cake on platter. Press chocolate curls onto sides. Chill at least 2 hours.

Lemon Raspberry Wedding Cake 
2 1/2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/4 teaspoons salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) plus 2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups sugar
3 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
1 cup milk
1 1/2 tablespoons freshly grated lemon zest
Note: 2 separate batches of this batter are required in this recipe (do not double)
2/3 cup sugar
1 cup water
zest of 1 large lemon removed in strips with a vegetable peeler
1/3 cup fresh lemon juice
2 tablespoons eau-de-vie de framboise
two 9-inch cardboard rounds*
two 7-inch cardboard rounds*
two 6-inch cardboard rounds*, trimmed to form 5-inch rounds
Lemon Meringue Buttercream
about 5 cups raspberries, picked over
five 8-inch plastic straws
66 leaf tip*
70 leaf tip*
113 leaf tip*
Note: A cake-decorating turntable* is extremely helpful for assembling and decorating a wedding cake.
crystallized edible flowers and mint leaves*
Crème Fraîche Ice Cream
additional raspberries
*available at specialty baking stores

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and line a buttered 10-inch round cake pan (at least 2 inches deep) with a round of wax paper. Butter paper and dust pan with flour, knocking out excess.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. In another bowl with an electric mixer cream butter with sugar until light and fluffy and beat in eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and vanilla. Add flour mixture and milk alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating until just combined after each addition, and beat in zest (do not overmix).
Pour batter into prepared pan and bake in middle of oven 35 to 40 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Cool cake in pan on a rack 5 minutes and invert onto rack. Peel off paper and cool cake completely.
Line a buttered 6-inch round cake pan and a buttered 8-inch round cake pan (each at least 2 inches deep) with rounds of wax paper. Butter paper and dust pans with flour, knocking out excess.
Make batter in same manner.
Pour 1 3/4 cups batter into prepared 6-inch pan. Pour remaining batter into prepared 8-inch pan. Bake 6-inch cake in middle of oven 30 to 35 minutes and 8-inch cake 35 to 40 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Cool cakes in pans on racks 5 minutes and invert onto racks. Peel off paper and cool cakes completely.
Cake layers may be made 2 weeks ahead, wrapped well in plastic wrap and foil, and frozen. Defrost cake layers (without unwrapping) at room temperature.
In a small saucepan combine sugar, water, and zest and bring to a boil, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Remove pan from heat and let syrup cool completely. Discard zest and stir in lemon juice and framboise. Syrup may be made 2 weeks ahead and chilled in an airtight container.
With a long serrated knife halve each layer horizontally. Put each 10-inch layer, cut side up, on a 9-inch cardboard round. Put 8-inch layers similarly on 7-inch rounds and 6-inch layers on 5-inch rounds. Brush cut sides of all 6 layers generously with syrup, dividing it evenly among layers, and let layers stand 15 minutes to absorb syrup.
Spread about 1 1/2 cups buttercream on top half of 10-inch layer, cut side up, and arrange enough raspberries, side by side and open ends down, in concentric circles to cover entire layer. Invert bottom half of 10-inch layer, cut side down, on top of berries and gently press layers together to form an even tier. (Discard top cardboard round.) Frost top and sides smoothly with some remaining buttercream and chill while assembling remaining 2 tiers.
Assemble and frost 8-inch tier in same manner (use about 1 cup buttercream between layers) and chill while assembling remaining tier. Assemble and frost 6-inch tier in same manner (use about 2/3 cup buttercream between layers) and chill until buttercream is firm.
Cut 3 straws in half and insert 1 straw piece all the way into center of 10-inch bottom tier. Trim straw level with top of tier and insert remaining 5 straw pieces in same manner in a circle about 1 1/2 inches from center straw. (Straws serve to support tiers.) Carefully put 8-inch middle tier (still on cardboard) in center of bottom tier. Cut remaining 2 straws in half and insert into middle tier in same manner, with 1 straw piece in center and remaining 3 straw pieces in a circle around it. Carefully put 6-inch top tier (still on cardboard) in center of middle tier.
Fill in any gaps between tiers with buttercream and transfer remaining buttercream to a pastry bag filled with a small (#66) leaf tip. Pipe a decorative border around top edge of top tier. With a medium-sized (#70) leaf tip pipe border in same manner around bottom edges of top and middle tiers. With same tip pipe 5 evenly spaced ribbons from top to bottom of cake. (These ribbons will support cascades of crystallized flowers.)
Transfer cake to a cake stand or other serving plate and with a larger (#113) leaf tip pipe border around bottom edge of cake. With same tip pipe mound of buttercream on top of cake. (This mound will support crystallized flower arrangement.)
Arrange crystallized flowers and mint leaves decoratively on top and sides of cake. Chill cake at least 6 hours and up to 1 day. Let cake stand at cool room temperature (buttercream is sensitive to warm temperatures) 2 to 4 hours before serving.
Serve cake with Crème Fraîche Ice Cream and additonal raspberries.

Chocolate Mousse Cake with Cinnamon Cream 
1/3 cup of water
1/3 cup sugar
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
12 ounces semisweet or bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped coarse
6 large eggs
1/3 cup strong brewed coffee
2 tablespoons dark rum if desired
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter an 8-inch round cake pan (about 2 inches deep) and line bottom with a round of parchment paper or foil.
In medium saucepan bring water and sugar to a simmer over moderate heat, stirring occasionally. Add butter and simmer, stirring occasionally, until melted. Remove pan from heat and add chocolate, swirling pan to submerge chocolate in hot syrup. Let chocolate stand in syrup 3 minutes and whisk until smooth.
In a large bowl whisk together eggs, coffee, rum, and cinnamon. Add chocolate mixture, whisking until well combined, and pour into cake pan.
Put cake in pan in larger pan and add enough water to reach halfway up side of cake pan. Bake cake in middle of oven 45 minutes, or until slightly firm to the touch. Cool cake completely in pan on rack.
Cake may be kept in pan, wrapped in plastic wrap, and chilled 1 week or frozen 1 month. Thaw cake completely before proceeding.
Run a thin knife around pan to loosen cake and put pan on hot stove burner for 3 to 4 seconds. Invert cake onto a plate and remove parchment or foil. Bring cake to room temperature.
In a bowl with an electric mixer or whisk beat cream with sugar and cinnamon until it just holds stiff peaks.
Just before serving, spread cream over top of cake or spoon onto plates alongside individual pieces.

Hazelnut-Topped Apricot Bar Cookies 
1 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 cup all purpose flour
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup apricot preserves

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter bottom of 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan. Combine nuts, 1 cup sugar and cinnamon in processor; blend until nuts are finely ground.
Combine 1/2 cup sugar, flour, butter, egg yolks, vanilla and salt in processor; blend just until combined. Spread dough over bottom of prepared pan. Bake until golden, about 15 minutes. Cool 10 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Spread preserves over crust. Beat whites in medium bowl until stiff but not dry. Fold in nut mixture. Spread nut meringue over preserves layer. Bake until meringue is firm to touch, about 25 minutes. Cool completely. Cut into squares.

Warm Pear and Walnut Cake with Lemon Custard Sauce 
1/4 cup sugar
2 large egg yolks
1 cup half and half
2 tablespoons grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons water
2 large Anjou pears, peeled, cored, cut into thin wedges
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) plus 1 tablespoon unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
6 tablespoons milk (do not use low-fat or nonfat)
3 tablespoons brandy
6 tablespoons finely chopped walnuts, toasted

Whisk sugar and egg yolks in medium bowl to blend. Bring half and half and lemon peel to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Gradually whisk hot half and half mixture into yolk mixture. Return to saucepan. Stir over medium heat until custard thickens and leaves path on back of spoon when finger is drawn across, about 5 minutes (do not boil). Strain custard into bowl; discard solids. Whisk lemon juice and vanilla into custard. Chill until cold, about 3 hours. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Stir sugar and water in heavy small saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat; boil without stirring until syrup turns deep amber, occasionally swirling pan and brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush, about 10 minutes. Pour caramel over bottom of prepared pan. Overlap pears atop caramel.
Mix flour, baking powder and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until creamy. Add eggs and lemon peel; beat until light and fluffy. Combine milk and brandy in small bowl. Mix dry ingredients into batter alternately with milk mixture in 3 additions each. Stir in nuts.
Pour batter atop pears in pan. Bake cake until golden on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool in pan 5 minutes. Run small knife around edges of pan to loosen cake. Place platter over cake and invert onto platter. Let stand 1 minute. Remove pan. Serve cake warm with cold sauce.

Maple Walnut Pound Cake with Maple Glaze 
1 3/4 cups coarsely chopped walnuts (about 6 ounces), toasted
2 1/4 cups cake flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
5 large eggs
1/2 cup pure maple syrup
3/4 teaspoon maple flavoring
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
2 tablespoons pure maple syrup
2 tablespoons whipping cream
6 tablespoons powdered sugar, sifted
12 walnut halves

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 12-cup Bundt pan. Finely grind walnuts in processor. Sift flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar into large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in maple syrup, maple flavoring and vanilla extract (butter may look curdled). Mix in dry ingredients. Fold in ground walnuts.
Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake cake until top is golden and tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Transfer pan to rack; cool cake about 10 minutes. Using small knife, cut around sides and center of pan to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Wrap tightly in foil and store at room temperature.)
Melt butter with maple syrup and cream in heavy small saucepan. Remove from heat. Add powdered sugar and whisk until smooth. Cool glaze until slightly thickened, about 15 minutes. Drizzle glaze over pound cake. Arrange walnut halves decoratively on top of cake. Let cake stand until glaze sets, about 15 minutes.

Whoopie Pies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup Dutch-process cocoa powder
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup well-shaken buttermilk
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup packed brown sugar
1 large egg
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups confectioners sugar
2 cups marshmallow cream such as Marshmallow Fluff
1 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, cocoa, baking soda, and salt in a bowl until combined. Stir together buttermilk and vanilla in a small bowl.
Beat together butter and brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes in a standing mixer or 5 minutes with a handheld, then add egg, beating until combined well. Reduce speed to low and alternately mix in flour mixture and buttermilk in batches, beginning and ending with flour, scraping down side of bowl occasionally, and mixing until smooth.
Spoon 1/4-cup mounds of batter about 2 inches apart onto 2 buttered large baking sheets. Bake in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until tops are puffed and cakes spring back when touched, 11 to 13 minutes. Transfer with a metal spatula to a rack to cool completely.
Beat together butter, confectioners sugar, marshmallow, and vanilla in a bowl with electric mixer at medium speed until smooth, about 3 minutes.
Spread a rounded tablespoon filling on flat sides of half of cakes and top with remaining cakes.

Caramel-Peanut Butter Mousse Tart 
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
3 tablespoons sugar
7 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 egg yolk
2 tablespoons whipping cream
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup plus 2 tablespoons packed golden brown sugar
3 tablespoons plus 1/4 cup whipping cream
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
1 3-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/3 cup creamy peanut butter (do not use old-fashioned style or freshly ground)
1teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup packed golden brown sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup water
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
4 tablespoons whipping cream
3/4 cup lightly salted roasted peanuts
Grated white chocolate (optional)

Mix flour and sugar in processor. Add butter; cut in using on/off turns until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add yolk, cream and vanilla; blend using on/off turns until dough begins to clump together. Gather into ball; flatten into disk. Wrap in plastic; chill 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Roll out dough on lightly floured surface to 11-inch round. Transfer dough to 9-inch-diameter tart pan with removable bottom. Trim edges. Freeze crust 15 minutes. Line with foil. Fill with dried beans or pie weights. Bake until sides are set, about 10 minutes. Remove foil and beans; bake crust until golden, piercing with toothpick if crust bubbles, about 20 minutes more. Cool completely on rack.
Combine 1/3 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons cream and butter in heavy small saucepan. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves and butter melts. Pour into medium bowl and cool to room temperature. Add cream cheese, peanut butter and vanilla to brown sugar mixture. Using electric mixer, beat until smooth. Whisk remaining 1/4 cup cream with remaining 2 tablespoons brown sugar in small bowl to stiff peaks; fold into peanut butter mixture. Spoon filling into tart shell; smooth top. Refrigerate until firm, about 1 hour.
Stir first 4 ingredients and 2 tablespoons cream in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to medium; stir slowly until clip-on candy thermometer registers 222 degrees F, about 8 minutes. Remove from heat. Add 2 tablespoons cream and nuts. Let stand just until cool, about 20 minutes. Spoon over filling. Chill until set, at least 2 hours or overnight.
Remove pan sides from tart. Transfer tart to platter. Sprinkle white chocolate around edges, if desired.

Chocolate Cake with Caramel-Coconut-Almond Filling 
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 cup water
1 tablespoon instant espresso powder or coffee powder
2 1/4 cups (packed) dark brown sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sour cream
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup water
1 cup whipping cream
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut (about 2 1/2 ounces), toasted
1 cup thinly sliced almonds (about 4 ounces), toasted
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups powdered sugar, sifted
1/2 cup sour cream
2 cups sliced almonds (about 8 ounces), toasted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms with waxed paper. Butter waxed paper. Combine chocolate, 1 cup water and espresso powder in heavy small saucepan. Stir over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Remove from heat. Cool completely, stirring occasionally.
Using electric mixer, beat brown sugar and butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add chocolate mixture and vanilla and beat until blended. Sift four, baking soda, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Add dry ingredients to butter mixture alternately with sour cream in 3 additions, beginning with dry ingredients and beating well after each addition.
Divide batter equally among prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Using small knife, cut around sides of pans to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks. Remove waxed paper; cool completely.
Combine sugar and 1/4 cup water in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to high and boil without stirring until syrup turns deep amber, brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush and swirling occasionally, about 10 minutes. Remove from heat. Carefully add cream (mixture will bubble vigorously). Place pan over medium low heat and stir until caramel bits melt, about 5 minutes. Stir in coconut and 1 cup almonds. Cool filling until thick enough to spread, stirring occasionally, about 45 minutes.
Melt butter and chocolate in heavy small saucepan over low heat, stirring until smooth. Transfer to large bowl. Stir in vanilla. Whisk in 1 cup powdered sugar and 1/4 cup sour cream. Whisk in remaining powdered sugar and sour cream.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread half of filling evenly over top, leaving 1/2-inch border. Top with second cake layer. Spread with remaining filling, leaving 1/2-inch boarder. Top with remaining cake layer. Spread frosting over sides and top of cake. Press 2 cups sliced almonds onto sides of cake. Using pastry spatula, swirl frosting on top of cake decoratively. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; store at room temperature.)

Chocolate Apricot Kugelhupf 
1 1/2 cups apricot nectar
1 1/2 cups sifted all purpose flour
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup nonfat dry milk powder
1 envelope fast-rising dry yeast
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs
3 large egg yolks
3 tablespoons apricot-flavored brandy or apricot nectar
1 1/4 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1 envelope fast-rising dry yeast
2 tablespoons hot water (120 degrees F. to 125 degrees F.)
3 1/2 cups sifted all purpose flour
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
6 ounces moist dried apricots, quartered
2 tablespoons firmly packed golden brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
Powdered sugar
2 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 cups plus 2 tablespoons whipping cream
2 tablespoons sugar
3 tablespoons apricot-flavored brandy or apricot nectar

Boil apricot nectar in heavy medium saucepan over high heat until reduced to 1 cup, about 5 minutes. Pour reduced nectar into large bowl. Cool to 120 degrees F. to 125 degrees F. Whisk in flour, sugar, milk powder and yeast. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let rise in warm draft-free area until double in volume, about 30 minutes.
Generously butter 12-cup kugelhupf pan. Using electric mixer, cream butter with sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in eggs and egg yolks 1 at a time. Beat in apricot brandy, salt, vanilla and ginger. Combine yeast and 2 tablespoons hot water in small bowl and stir until yeast dissolves. Mix yeast mixture and sponge into butter mixture. Gradually mix in 3 cups flour. Combine chocolate, apricots, brown sugar and cinnamon in medium bowl. Mix into dough.
Spoon dough into prepared pan. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and clean kitchen towel. Let stand in warm draft-free area until dough rises just to top of pan, about 3 hours.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Bake kugelhupf until deep brown and cracking on top and tester inserted in center comes out clean, about 48 minutes. Cool on rack 20 minutes. Turn out onto rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Return to pan, cover tightly and store at room temperature.)
Stir chocolate and 2 tablespoons cream in heavy small saucepan over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Cool. Beat remaining 2 cups cream and sugar in large bowl until soft peaks form. Add brandy and continue beating until stiff peaks form. Pour chocolate mixture over cream and fold together until whipped cream is lightly streaked with chocolate. Transfer to serving bowl; chill. (Can be prepared 8 hours ahead.)
Place kugelhupf on platter. Lightly sift powdered sugar over. Cut into wedges. Serve, passing whipped cream separately if desired.

Cinderella Cheesecake 
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate chopped
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1/2 cup sifted all purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon baking powder
2 large eggs
1 cup firmly packed golden brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 ounce bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
12 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup firmly packed golden brown sugar
3 large eggs
1/2 cup sour cream
1 1/3 cups creamy peanut butter (do not use old-fashioned or freshly ground), about 12 ounces
3/4 cup sour cream
2 teaspoons sugar
1/2 cup creamy peanut butter

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Dust pan lightly with flour, tap out excess.
Melt unsweetened chocolate and butter in heavy small saucepan over low heat. Cool. Blend flour, salt and baking powder in small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat eggs and sugar in medium bowl until slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are lifted, about 4 minutes. Scrape down sides of bowl. Beat in melted chocolate mixture, vanilla and chopped chocolate. Add dry ingredients and mix until just blended; do not over beat.
Spread 1 cup brownie batter over bottom of prepared pan. Bake until firm, about 17 minutes. Cool baked bottom crust in pan in freezer, about 15 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Blend cream cheese and sugar in processor until smooth. Add eggs and sour cream and process using on/off turns until mixture is smooth, stopping to scrape down sides of bowl as needed. Blend in peanut butter using on/off turns.
Using small knife, spread remaining brownie batter evenly around sides of pan, sealing batter to bottom crust. Pour in filling, which will not be as high as brownie batter. Bake until center of cheesecake is gently set and brownie sides have fallen to form a 1-inch-wide ring around filling, about 30 minutes.
Blend sour cream and sugar in small bowl. Spread evenly atop cheesecake to within 3/4 inch of edge. Bake cheesecake 1 more minute.
Set cake on rack. Using small sharp knife, cut around top edge of cake to loosen from pan sides. Cool completely. Place peanut butter in pastry bag fitted with small (no. 1) star tip. Pipe tiny rosettes of peanut butter around edge of sour cream. Refrigerate cake until rosettes are firm, about 30 minutes. Cover pan tightly with foil and chill overnight. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.)
Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Release sides. Transfer cheesecake to platter. Cut into wedges and serve.

Chocolate-Frangelico Cheesecake 
20 chocolate-covered graham cracker cookies
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
2/3 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar
1/4 cup sour cream
5 teaspoons cornstarch
3 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup Frangelico (hazelnut liqueur)
1/3 cup almonds, toasted, chopped
1 teaspoon almond extract
4 teaspoons unsweetened cocoa powder

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 425 degrees F. Wrap foil tightly around outside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Finely grind graham cracker cookies in processor. Add butter and process until blended. Press mixture onto bottom (not sides) of prepared pan. Set aside.
Blend cream cheese, 2/3 cup sugar, sour cream and cornstarch in processor. Add eggs, yolk and vanilla; process until well blended, scraping down sides of processor occasionally. Transfer 3/4 cup cream cheese mixture to small bowl; set aside. Add Frangelico, almonds and almond extract to remaining cream cheese mixture in processor. Blend well, using on/off turns. Spoon 2 1/2 cups Frangelico mixture over crust.
Mix cocoa powder and 3 tablespoons sugar into reserved 3/4 cup cream cheese mixture. Spoon 2/3 cup cocoa mixture over Frangelico mixture in pan. Spoon remaining Frangelico mixture over cocoa mixture. Drop remaining cocoa mixture over by spoonfuls. Run tip of small knife through batter several times to marbleize.
Bake cheesecake 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F and bake cake until sides are puffed and center is set, about 45 minutes. Transfer cake to rack. Using small knife, cut around sides of pan to loosen cake. Cool cake completely in pan. Cover; chill overnight. Remove pan sides from cake. Cut into wedges and serve.

Pound Cake with Fresh Strawberries and Balsamic Sabayon 
1 /4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/4 cup water
4 large egg yolks
3 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
1/2 cup chilled whipping cream
2 12-ounce baskets strawberries, hulled, quartered
2 tablespoons sugar
1 16-ounce pound cake, cut into thin slices

Combine first 3 ingredients and 2 tablespoons vinegar in medium stainless steel bowl. Set bowl over pan of simmering water (do not allow bowl to touch water). Whisk until sabayon triples in volume and thermometer registers 160 degrees F, 4 minutes. Place bowl over larger bowl filled with ice and water; whisk sabayon until cool.
Beat cream in another medium bowl to soft peaks. Add sabayon and fold together. Cover and refrigerate sabayon.
Puree 3/4 cup quartered berries with 2 tablespoons sugar and remaining 1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar in processor. Pour puree into large bowl. Add remaining berries and toss to coat.
Arrange 3 thin cake slices on each of 6 plates. Spoon berry mixture alongside. Top with sabayon and serve.

Cocoa Angel Food Cake with Orange Glaze 
1 cup self-rising flour
1/3 cup sifted unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder such as Droste (sift before measuring)
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups egg whites (from 10 to 11 large eggs)
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons vanilla
Orange Glaze

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. and have ready an ungreased 10-inch tube pan (about 4 inched deep) with a removable bottom.
In a small bowl whisk together flour, cocoa powder, and 1/2 cup sugar. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat whites with salt on medium speed until white, opaque, and beginning to hold their shape. Gradually add the remaining 3/4 cup sugar, beating at high speed until whites hold soft (not stiff), slightly glossy peaks. Beat in vanilla.
Sift one third cocoa mixture over whites and fold in gently but thoroughly, scraping bottom of bowl to prevent lumps. Sift and fold in remaining cocoa mixture, half at a time, in same manner and pour batter into pan. With a knife, make series of side by side chops in batter to remove air bubbles and smooth top. Bake cake in middle of oven 40 to 45 minutes, or until firm to the touch. Invert cake over neck of a bottle and cool completely.
Run a thin knife around edge of cake and remove side of pan. Run knife under bottom of cake and around center tube to loosen cake and invert cake onto a rack.
While orange glaze is still warm, quickly pour over cake, spreading evenly over top with a spatula and allowing excess to drip down outside. (Alternatively, spoon glaze into a plastic bag and squeeze into one corner. Snip off corner to make small hole in bag and streak glaze over cake from center outward.)
While glaze is still wet (to avoid cracking), transfer cake to a platter. When glaze is set, cover cake loosely with plastic wrap or place under a cake dome and keep at room temperature until ready to serve.
If cake is kept more than 1 day (before or after serving), it should be wrapped in plastic wrap and frozen. Bring cake to room temperature before serving.

Apple Cobbler Cake 
6 large tart green apples (about 2 1/2 pounds), peeled, quartered, cored, thinly sliced
2 cups plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 tablespoons plus 3 cups all purpose flour
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled
1/2 cup water
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 13x9x2-inch baking pan. Place apples in large bowl. Add 1 cup sugar, cinnamon, 2 tablespoons flour and lemon juice and toss to blend well.
Stir in 1 cup sugar, 3 cups flour, baking powder and salt in medium bowl to blend. Whisk eggs, melted butter, 1/2 cup water and vanilla extract in small bowl to blend. Add egg mixture to dry ingredients and stir until thick dough forms. Spread 1 3/4 cups dough over bottom of prepared pan. Top with apple mixture. Drop remaining dough by tablespoonfuls evenly over apple mixture. Sprinkle with remaining 2 tablespoons sugar. Cover pan tightly with foil.
Bake cake covered 30 minutes. Uncover pan. Bake until cake is golden brown and apples are tender, about 45 minutes longer. Transfer pan to rack; cool cake 30 minutes. Cut cake into squares and serve warm.

French Apple Cake 
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1 3/4 cups sugar
1/3 cup water
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 large Granny Smith apples (about 1 1/4 pounds), peeled, cored, thinly sliced
1 cup all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 large egg yolks
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons Calvados, applejack or other brandy
2 teaspoons vanilla
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Coat pan with sugar; tap out excess. Melt 1/4 cup butter in heavy large skillet over medium-high heat. Stir in 3/4 cup sugar, water and cinnamon and bring to boil. Add apples and cook until apples are just tender, turning frequently, about 15 minutes. Remove apples, using slotted spoon, and arrange decoratively in bottom of pan. Continue boiling liquid in skillet until thick and syrupy, about 4 minutes. Pour over apples.
Sift flour, baking powder and salt into small bowl. Whisk remaining 1 cup sugar, egg yolks, eggs, Calvados and vanilla in large bowl to blend. Gently stir in dry ingredients. Fold in 1/2 cup melted butter. Pour batter over apples in pan. Bake until toothpick inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool cake in pan 5 minutes. Run small sharp knife around side of pan to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto platter. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Poppy Seed Tea Cake with Cardamom Streusel 
6 tablespoons sugar
6 tablespoons all purpose flour
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
3/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 1/3 cups cake flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/4 teaspoon salt
11 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
1/4 cup orange juice
2 teaspoons grated orange peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup poppy seeds (about 2 ounces)

For streusel: Mix all ingredients in small bowl until moist clumps form.
For cake: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 12-cup angel food cake pan with removable bottom. Sift first 5 ingredients twice into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Mix in sour cream, juice, peel and vanilla. Beat in dry ingredients to blend. Mix in poppy seeds. Transfer batter to prepared pan (batter will fill less than half of pan).
Bake cake 25 minutes. Sprinkle streusel over top of cake. Continue to bake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool in pan on rack. Using small knife, cut around sides of pan and center tube to loosen cake. Push cake up. Cut cake free from pan bottom. Transfer cake to platter.

Lemon Verbena Pound Cake with Strawberries 
1 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons finely chopped fresh lemon verbena or 1 tablespoon freshly grated lemon zest
1 tablespoon freshly grated lemon zest
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup granulated sugar
3 large eggs
3/4 teaspoon vanilla
2 tablespoons milk
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon confectioners' sugar
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
Accompaniment: strawberries

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. and butter and flour a 1-quart kugelhopf pan, knocking out excess flour.
In a bowl whisk together flour, baking powder, salt, verbena (or zest), and zest. In another bowl with an electric mixer beat butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in vanilla. Beat in half of flour mixture. Beat in milk and lemon juice and beat in remaining flour mixture until just combined.
Spoon batter into pan, smoothing top, and bake in middle of oven 45 to 55 minutes, or until golden brown on top and a tester comes out clean. Cool cake in pan on a rack 15 minutes and invert onto rack to cool completely.
In a small bowl whisk confectioners's sugar, a little at a time, into lemon juice until smooth and thick.
When cake is completely cooled, drizzle glaze over cake and let it drip down sides. Cake may be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered.
Serve cake at room temperature with strawberries.

Apple Cider Cupcakes with Cider Cream Cheese Icing 
3 cups unpasteurized apple cider
3/4 cup vegetable shortening
1 3/4 cups sugar
2 large eggs
2 cups all-purpose flour, sifted
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups apple cider
6 ounces cream cheese, cut into bits and softened
1/2 cup sifted confectioners' sugar

In a large saucepan boil the cider until it is reduced to about 1 1/2 cups and let it cool. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together the shortening and the sugar until the mixture is fluffy and beat in the eggs, 1 at a time. Into the bowl sift together the flour, the cloves, the cinnamon, the baking soda, and a pinch of salt, stir in the reduced cider, and combine the mixture well. Divide the batter among 18 paper-lined 1/2-cup muffin tins and bake the cupcakes in the middle of a preheated 375 degrees F. oven for 25 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Transfer the cupcakes to a rack, let them cool in the tins, and remove them from the tins.
In a saucepan boil the cider until it is reduced to about 1/4 cup and let it cool. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together the cream cheese, the confectioners' sugar, the reduced cider, and a pinch of salt until the icing is smooth.
Spread each cupcake with some of the icing.

Lemon-Lattice White Chocolate Cake 
3/4 cup fresh lemon juice
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
3 large eggs
6 large egg yolks
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
2 tablespoons grated lemon peel
2 1/4 cups whipping cream
4 1/2 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt), chopped
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 3/4 cups sifted all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
4 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt), chopped
1 cup whipping cream
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups sugar
4 large eggs, separated

Combine lemon juice and cornstarch in heavy medium saucepan, stirring until cornstarch dissolves. Whisk in remaining ingredients. Cook over medium heat until mixture is thick and smooth and just begins to boil, stirring constantly, about 7 minutes. Transfer to medium bowl. Place plastic wrap directly on surface of curd to prevent skin from forming. Refrigerate until chilled, about 6 hours. (Can be prepared days ahead.)
Combine 1/2 cup cream and chocolate in heavy small saucepan. Stir over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Transfer to large bowl. Whisk in remaining 1 3/4 cups cream and vanilla. Refrigerate until well chilled, about 6 hours. (Can be prepared up to 1 day ahead.)
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms with waxed paper. Butter paper. Dust pans with flour; tap out excess. Sift flour, baking powder and salt together into medium bowl. Repeat sifting.
Stir chocolate and 1/2 cup cream in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Mix in remaining 1/2 cup cream, milk and vanilla.
Using electric mixer, beat butter and 1 cup sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in yolks. Stir dry ingredients into butter mixture alternately with white chocolate mixture, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Using electric mix fitted with clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in medium bowl to soft peaks. Gradually beat in remaining 1 cup sugar. Continue beating until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into cake batter in 2 additions. Divide batter among prepared cake pans. Bake until tester inserted in center comes out clean and cakes are beginning to pull away from sides of pans, about 24 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks, peel off waxed paper and cool completely. (Can be prepared 4 hours ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat frosting in another large bowl until stiff peaks form. Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 2/3 cup lemon curd evenly atop cake layer. Spread 3/4 cup frosting atop curd. Top with second cake layer. Spread cake with 2/3 cup curd, then with 3/4 cup frosting. Top with third cake layer. Frost top and sides of entire cake evenly with 3 cups frosting.
Place remaining lemon curd in pastry bag fitted with no. 2 star tip. Pipe circle of curd around top of cake, 1/2 inch from edge. Pipe evenly spaced diagonal lines inside circle, creating lattice pattern. (Reserve remaining curd for another use.) Spoon remaining frosting into clean pastry bag fitted with no. 2 star tip. Pipe ruffled border around top and bottom edges of cake. (Can be prepared up to 6 hours ahead. Refrigerate.) Let stand at room temperature 30 minutes before serving.

The Ultimate Valentine Cake 
3 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt or Tobler), chopped
3 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
9 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt or Tobler), chopped
5 large eggs, separated, room temperature
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
1tablespoon framboise liqueur or Grand Marnier
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted, warm
3/4 cup cake flour
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
3 tablespoon light corn syrup
3 tablespoons framboise liqueur or Grand Marnier
1 1-pint basket strawberries, hulled and halved
1 1/2-pint basket raspberries
1 1-pint basket strawberries with stems, halved through stem end (stems left intact)
2 1-pint baskets strawberries, hulled and sliced
3 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons framboise liqueur or Grand Marnier
2 1/2-pint baskets raspberries

Cut heart-shaped piece of waxed paper about 4 inches larger than 8x2-inch bottomless heart-shaped cake pan. Place on cookie sheet. Lightly oil inside of heart pan with vegetable oil. Butter outside of pan. Place heart pan atop paper on cookie sheet. Press waxed paper up onto outside of buttered pan to adhere, to prevent chocolate from leaking out. Place white chocolate in bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water; stir until smooth. Remove from over water. Place bittersweet chocolate in another bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water; stir until smooth. Remove from over water.
Drop white chocolate by spoonfuls inside heart, spacing apart and allowing some to touch inner edge of pan. Drop bittersweet chocolate by spoonfuls into spaces. Move heart pan gently from side to side to distribute chocolate evenly and fill in heart completely. Swirl mixtures together using tip of knife. Holding cake pan to cookie sheet with hands, tap sheet firmly on counter to flatten chocolate. Freeze until firm, about 20 minutes.
Run small sharp knife around outside of pan to loosen chocolate. Remove pan. Refrigerate chocolate lid until ready to use. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead. Cover with plastic wrap.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 8x2-inch bottomless heart-shaped cake pan. Cut heart-shaped piece of heavy-duty foil 4 inches larger that heart cake pan. Butter and flour foil. Place on heavy large cookie sheet or double-stacked cookie sheets. Center heart pan on foil. Wrap foil around outsides of pan, folding, pressing and crimping firmly to adhere, to batter from leaking out. Place white chocolate in bowl. Set bowl over sauce-pan of simmering water; stir until smooth. Remove from over water.
Using electric mixer, beat yolks and 1/2 cup sugar in large bowl until pale yellow and slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are lifted, about 3 minutes. Beat in framboise and vanilla, then butter. Add melted chocolate and beat until just combined.
Using electric mixer fitted with clean dry beaters, beat whites in large bowl to soft peaks. Gradually add remaining 1 tablespoon sugar and beat until just stiff. Mix flour into chocolate mixture (batter will be very thick). Stir in 1/4 of whites to lighten. Gradually fold in remaining whites. Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake 45 minutes. Cover top with foil. Bake until tip of small knife inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 20 minutes (cake will be well browned). Cool in pan on rack.
Melt chocolate, butter and corn syrup in heavy medium saucepan over low heat, stirring until smooth. Stir in framboise. Cool icing until firm enough to spread, about 2 hours.
Run small sharp knife around cake pan sides to loosen. Cut cake into 2 layers using serrated knife. Place bottom cake layer on platter cut side up. Spread 2/3 cup icing over. Cover with top cake layer cut side down. Spread all but 1/2 cup icing over top and sides of cake. Refrigerate cake until icing is set, about 1 hour. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate cake and remaining icing separately. Rewarm icing over very low heat until just spreadable before continuing with recipe.)
Mound some hulled strawberries and raspberries on right half of heart cake. Position lid atop berries at angle, moving berries around so that left edge of lid rests on left edge of cake. Tuck half of strawberries with stems, stems facing out, between cake and lid. Spread remaining icing over sides of cake where lid is attached, smoothing with spatula to create boxlike appearance. Reserve remaining strawberries and raspberries for garnish. Refrigerate cake until icing is set, about 1 hour. (Can be assembled 12 hours ahead.)
Toss two 1-pint baskets strawberries with sugar and framboise in large bowl. Chill at least 1 hour or up to 6 hours. Add raspberries and toss gently.
Arrange reserved berries on platter around cake. Serve cake, spooning compote over each piece.

Fallen Chocolate Cake Squares à la Mode with Butterscotch Sauce 
9 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
3/4 cup sugar
5 large eggs, separated
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon salt
coffee ice cream
Butterscotch Sauce
whipped cream if desired

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. Butter and flour a 9-inch square baking pan, knocking out excess flour.
In a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water melt chocolate and butter, stirring occasionally, until smooth. Remove bowl from heat and whisk 1/2 cup sugar into chocolate mixture. Add yolks 1 at a time, whisking well after each addition, and whisk in flour, cocoa powder, vanilla, and salt.
In a bowl beat whites until they hold soft peaks and gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar, beating until whites just hold stiff peaks. Stir one fourth whites into chocolate mixture to lighten and fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Pour batter into baking pan, spreading evenly, and bake in middle of oven 40 to 45 minutes, or until a tester comes out with moist crumbs adhering. Cool cake in pan on a rack. (Cake will sink as it cools and top crust will crack.) Cake may be made 1 day ahead and kept, covered, at room temperature.
Cut cake into 9 squares (crust will shatter) and serve with ice cream, sauce, and whipped cream.

Sour Cream Coffee Cake 
1 cup firmly packed golden brown sugar
1 cup chopped walnuts
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease 10-inch (12-cup) tube pan; dust with flour, tapping out excess. Mix first 3 ingredients in small bowl; set aside.
Sift flour, baking powder and baking soda into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and 1 1/2 cups sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until combined after each addition. Mix in sour cream and vanilla. Add flour mixture and stir until blended. Spoon half of batter into prepared pan. Sprinkle half of brown sugar mixture over and swirl gently into batter, using small knife. Spoon remaining batter over. Sprinkle remaining brown sugar mixture over.
Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool cake in pan 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn out cake onto rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap and store at room temperature.)

Espresso-Hazelnut Cheesecake 
8 1/2 ounces butter biscuit cookies
1/2 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2 pounds cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup plus 2/3 cup chilled whipping cream
3 tablespoons instant espresso powder
2 tablespoons warm water
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked, coarsely chopped
Chocolate-covered espresso beans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter bottom and sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Wrap outside of pan with double layer of foil. Finely grind cookies, hazelnuts, sugar and cinnamon in processor. Add butter; process until moist clumps form. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and up sides of pan. Chill while preparing filling.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until smooth. Add sugar and beat until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until blended and scraping down sides of bowl after each addition. Beat in sour cream and 1/2 cup cream. Stir espresso powder and 2 tablespoons warm water in small bowl until powder dissolves. Add to filling and beat until blended. Beat in vanilla. Stir in nuts.
Pour filling into prepared pan. Place pan in large baking pan. Pour enough hot water into baking pan to come halfway up sides of springform pan. Bake cake until top is puffed and center is almost set, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Turn off oven; open door slightly. Let cake stand in oven with door ajar 1 hour. Remove pan from water; transfer to rack. Cool. Wrap in foil and chill overnight. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Keep chilled).
Run small knife around sides of pan to loosen cheesecake. Remove pan sides. Beat 2/3 cup cream in medium bowl until stiff peaks form. Spoon whipped cream into pastry bag fitted with large star tip; pipe around top edge of cake. Garnish with chocolate-covered espresso beans.

Chocolate Truffle Linzer Heart 
1 cup hazelnuts (about 5 ounces), toasted
2/3 cup sugar
1 1/4 cups sifted all purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1 ounce cream cheese, cut into small pieces, frozen
1 large egg, beaten to blend
1/2 ounce bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
1 egg white, beaten to blend
1/3 cup seedless raspberry jam
9 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
3 tablespoons whipping cream
1/3 cup plus 2 tablespoons seedless raspberry jam
1 1/2-pint basket raspberries
Lightly sweetened whipped cream

Position rack in lowest third of oven. Set cookie sheet on rack and preheat to 375 degrees F. Remove bottom from 10 1/2x9 1/2-inch heart-shape tart pan with 1-inch-high sides and removable bottom. Place bottom on parchment and trace heart shape.
Finely chop nuts with sugar in processor. Add flour, cinnamon, salt, cloves and ginger. Process just to blend. Add butter and cream cheese to processor. Process until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add 1 egg and chocolate. Process, using on/off turns, until large moist clumps form.
To form top crust, transfer 1 1/3 cups dough to pastry bag fitted with no. 4 (3/8-inch diameter) plain tip. Refrigerate remaining dough. Pipe 7 parallel diagonal lines about 3/4 inch apart across heart outline on parchment. Pipe border around edge of heart inside traced line, touching ends of diagonal lines (some dough may be left over in pastry bag). Freeze 10 minutes. Brush dough with some egg white. Slide parchment with heart onto heated cookie sheet and bake until crust is golden and edges are beginning to brown, about 15 minutes. Run long thin spatula between crust and parchment to loosen crust. Slide parchment with heart-shape crust onto rack and cool completely. Maintain oven temperature.
Return removable bottom to heart pan. Press remaining dough onto bottom and 3/4 inch up sides of pan, using plastic wrap if necessary to prevent dough from sticking to hands. Freeze until dough is firm, about 10 minutes. Brush lightly with egg white. Set pan on heated cookie sheet and bake until crust is golden brown and sides are beginning to pull away from pan, about 23 minutes. Spread bottom crust evenly with 1/3 cup jam. Bake 3 more minutes. Cool crust completely on rack.
Stir chocolate, butter and cream in heavy medium saucepan over medium-low heat until chocolate and butter are melted and mixture is smooth. Mix in 2 tablespoon jam. Cool slightly. Pour filling evenly into bottom crust; smooth top. Chill until filling is firm, about 30 minutes.
Spread remaining 1/3 cup jam over filling and outer edge of bottom crust. Carefully place cooled heart-shape top crust atop jam. Press gently to seal. Cover with foil and refrigerate overnight. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead.)
Remove torte from pan. Transfer to platter. Let stand at room temperature 45 minutes. Arrange raspberries in row in first space between crust lines. Spoon whipped cream into pastry bag fitted with small star tip. Pipe row of small rosettes in second space between crust lines. Continue, alternating rows of raspberries and whipped cream rosettes between crust lines.

Rosewater Angel Food Cake 
1 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1 2/3 cups sugar
1 3/4 cups egg whites (about 13 large egg whites)
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 teaspoon rosewater (available at specialty foods shops) if desired
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup confectioner's sugar
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/8 teaspoon grenadine syrup
fresh raspberries for garnish
mint sprigs for garnish

Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F. Sift the flour 3 times onto a sheet of wax paper. Sift together the sifted flour and 2/3 cup of the sugar onto another sheet of wax paper. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat the egg whites until they are frothy, add the salt and the cream of tartar, and beat the mixture until it barely forms soft peaks. Beat in the remaining 1 cup of sugar, a little at a time, the rosewater, and the vanilla and beat the mixture until it holds soft peaks. Sift one fourth of the flour mixture over the whites, fold it gently but thoroughly, and sift and fold in the remaining flour mixture in the same manner. Spoon the batter into a very clean, ungreased tube pan, 10 by 8 1/4 by 4 1/4 inches, preferably with a removable bottom, smoothing the top, and rap the pan on a hard surface twice to remove any air bubbles. Bake the cake in the middle of the oven for 1 hour and 15 minutes, or until it is springy to the touch and a tester comes out clean. If the pan has feet invert it over a work surface; otherwise invert it over the neck of a bottle. Let the cake cool for at least 2 hours or overnight. Run a thin knife in a sawing motion around the edge of the pan and the tube to loosen the cake from the pan and invert the cake onto a cake plate.
In a small bowl stir together with a fork the confectioner's sugar, the lemon juice, and the grenadine syrup until the mixture is smooth.
Pour the glaze over the cake, let the cake stand for 10 minutes, or until the glaze is set, and garnish it with the raspberries and the mint.

Molasses Cookie Baskets with Lemon Sorbet and Gingered Fruit 
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup light unsulfured molasses
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup all purpose flour, sifted
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup water
1/4 cup minced crystallized ginger
1 1-pint basket strawberries, hulled, quartered
1 1/2-pint basket blueberries
2 peaches, peeled, pitted, sliced
2 pints purchased lemon sorbet

For cookies: Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 2 large nonstick cookie sheets. Bring first 5 ingredients to simmer in heavy small saucepan over medium heat, stirring constantly. Remove from heat. Whisk in vanilla, then flour. Cool cookie mixture 10 minutes.
Drop mixture by level tablespoonfuls onto cookie sheets, spacing 6-inches apart and forming 3 cookies on each sheet. Using buttered fingertips, press out each round to 4 1/2-inch diameter.
Bake 1 sheet until cookies are deep brown, about 12 minutes. Cool cookies on sheet just until firm enough to lift without breaking, about 2 minutes. Working quickly, lift 1 cookie from sheet. Drape cookie top side up over inverted 3/4-cup custard dish. Gently flatten cookie on dish bottom; crimp sides to form fluted cup. Repeat with remaining 2 cookies, returning cookie sheet to oven briefly if cookies harden. Repeat baking and molding process with remaining cookies. Cool. Gently remove cookies from dishes.
For fruit: Stir first 3 ingredients in heavy small saucepan over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and boil 3 minutes. Refrigerate ginger syrup until cold. (Cookies and syrup can be prepared 1 week ahead. Store cookies at room temperature in airtight container. Keep sauce refrigerated.) Place fruit in bowl. Add half of ginger syrup and toss well.
Place 1 cookie on each of 6 plates. Fill each with 3 scoops of sorbet and spoon fruit and remaining syrup over.

Lemon and Anise Sugar Twists 
Sugar
1 sheet frozen puff pastry (half of 17 1/2-ounce package), thawed
1 egg beaten with 1 teaspoon milk (glaze)
3 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
2 teaspoons aniseed

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Sprinkle work surface with sugar. Set pastry atop sugar and roll out to thickness of 1/8 inch. Brush with egg glaze. Combine 3 tablespoons sugar and lemon peel in small bowl. Sprinkle over pastry. Sprinkle with aniseed. Cut pastry crosswise into 1-inch-wide strips. Pick up each pastry strip, twist several times and place on ungreased cookie sheet, pressing ends onto sheet. Bake until golden brown and crisp, about 20 minutes. Cool pastries on rack.

Tandy Cake Moss 
4 large eggs
2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup milk
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
a 12-ounce jar creamy or chunky peanut butter (about 1 1/3 cups)
1 pound milk chocolate, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. Butter and flour a 17 1/4- by 11 1/2- by 1-inch jelly-roll pan, knocking out excess flour.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat eggs with sugar and vanilla until mixture is very thick, pale, and forms a ribbon when beaters are lifted, about 3 minutes. In a small saucepan bring milk and butter just to a boil. Cover pan and remove from heat. Sift flour and baking powder into egg mixture and beat just until combined. With mixer running add hot milk mixture in a stream and beat just until combined. Spread batter evenly in pan and bake in middle of oven 20 to 25 minutes, or until golden and springs back when touched lightly. Cool cake in pan on a rack.
In a small saucepan heat peanut butter over low heat, stirring, just until barely warm and thin enough to spread easily. Spread peanut butter evenly over cake and chill, uncovered, 30 minutes, or until peanut butter is firm. In a double boiler or metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water melt chocolate, stirring, and cool to room temperature.
Pour chocolate onto cake and spread evenly over peanut butter. Cut cake into 24 squares and chill in pan, uncovered, until chocolate is firm. Recut cake squares and serve chilled or at room temperature.

Hazelnut Meringue Drops 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/2 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked
4 large egg whites
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 tablespoons cornstarch

Position 1 rack in center and 1 rack in top third of oven and preheat to 300 degrees F. Spray 2 heavy large baking sheets with nonstick vegetable oil spray. Finely grind hazelnuts in processor. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites in large bowl until foamy. Add cream of tartar and beat until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1/4 cup sugar and beat until stiff and glossy but not dry. Beat in vanilla extract. Sift cornstarch and remaining 1/4 cup of sugar into small bowl. Sift half of cornstarch mixture over meringue mixture. Using rubber spatula, carefully fold into meringue. Sift remaining half of cornstarch mixture over and fold into meringue. Gently fold in nuts.
Working in batches, spoon meringue into large pastry bag fitted with large star tip. Pipe meringue onto prepared baking sheets, forming 1-inch rounds and spacing 1/2 inch apart. Bake until meringues are light golden brown and set, about 35 minutes. Let meringues stand 5 minutes on baking sheets. Carefully transfer meringues to rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Store in air-tight containers at room temperature.)

Apricot Financier 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
3/4 cup sliced blanched almonds
2/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon superfine sugar
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
3 fresh apricots, sliced thin
4 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon salt
lightly sweetened whipped cream or vanilla ice cream as an accompaniment

Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. and butter an 8-inch round cake pan. In a small saucepan melt the butter over moderate heat, let it cool, and stir in the vanilla and the almond extract. In a food processor blend together the almonds, 2/3 cup of the sugar, and the flour until the almonds are ground fine. In a small bowl toss the apricots with the remaining 1 tablespoon sugar. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat the egg whites with the salt until they just hold stiff peaks, fold in the almond mixture gently but thoroughly, and fold in the butter mixture (the batter will deflate slightly). Spread the batter in the cake pan, arrange the apricot slices evenly over it, and bake the cake in the middle of the oven for 20 to 25 minutes, or until it is golden and a tester comes out clean. Turn the cake out onto a rack, let it cool, apricot side up, for 5 minutes, and serve it warm with the whipped cream or ice cream.

Aquavit Lemon Pound Cake 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
4 large eggs, room temperature
1/4 cup aquavit
2 tablespoons caraway seeds
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon peel
2 cups sifted all purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 9x5x3-inch loaf pan. Line pan with parchment paper. Butter paper and dust with flour.
Using electric mixer, beat 1 cup butter in large bowl until light. Gradually add sugar and beat until smooth and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating after each addition until just combined. Beat in aquavit, caraway, vanilla extract and lemon peel. Combine flour, baking powder and salt in medium bowl. Sift dry ingredients over batter. Blend well, using rubber spatula.
Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake cake until deep-golden-brown crust forms and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 20 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool 10 minutes. Turn out cake onto rack, remove parchment paper and cool completely. Wrap tightly in foil and let stand at room temperature overnight. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Store at room temperature.)

Cherry-Chocolate Chip Oatmeal Cookies 
1 cup all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1 cup old-fashioned oats
1 1/2 cups semisweet chocolate chips
1 cup dried tart cherries
1/2 cup slivered almonds, toasted

Position racks in center and top third of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Sift flour, baking soda and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter, sugar and brown sugar in large bowl until well blended. Mix in egg and both extracts. Beat in flour mixture. Mix in oats, then chocolate chips, cherries and almonds.
Drop dough by rounded tablespoonfuls onto baking sheets, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake cookies 12 minutes. Switch and rotate baking sheets. Bake cookies until golden, about 6 minutes longer. Cool cookies on baking sheets (cookies will firm as they cool). (Can be prepared 1 week ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Traditional Hamantaschen 
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup vegetable shortening
1 cup sugar
1 large egg
2 teaspoons packed finely grated fresh orange zest
1 tablespoon fresh orange juice
2/3 cup filling such as Date Orange Filling , Apple Raisin Filling , prune lekvar, poppy-seed filling, or apricot or cherry jam

Into a bowl sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. In another bowl with an electric mixer beat shortening, sugar, and egg at medium speed until light and fluffy. Add zest and juice and beat until incorporated. Add flour mixture, stirring, until a smooth dough is formed. Gather dough into a ball and flatten into a disk. Chill dough, wrapped in plastic wrap, at least 3 hours and up to 2 days.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees  F.
Halve dough. On a lightly floured surface roll out half of dough (keeping other half wrapped and chilled) 1/4 inch thick. With a 3-inch cutter cut out as many rounds as possible. Transfer rounds with a metal spatula to a large baking sheet, arranging about 1/2 inch apart. Reroll scraps and cut out more rounds. Put 1 teaspoon filling in center of each round and fold up edges to form triangular cookies resembling a tricornered hat, pinching corners together and leaving filling exposed. (Pinch dough tightly enough so seams are no longer visible and sides are taut enough to prevent cookies from leaking filling as they bake.)
Bake hamantaschen in middle of oven 20 minutes, or until pale golden. Cool hamantaschen on baking sheet 5 minutes and transfer to racks to cool completely. Make more hamantaschen with remaining dough and filling in same manner. Hamantaschen keep in an airtight container at room temperature 5 days.

Oatmeal, Date, Pecan and Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 1/2 cups old-fashioned oatmeal
1/2 cup all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
1/2 cup sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
3/4 cup chopped pitted dates (about 5 ounces)
3/4 cup chopped pecans (about 3 ounces)
2/3 cup semisweet chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Grease 2 heavy large cookie sheets. Mix first 4 ingredients together in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, cream butter and both sugars in large bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in egg and vanilla. Mix in oatmeal mixture. Stir in remaining ingredients. Drop rounded tablespoons of dough about 2 inches apart onto prepared cookie sheets. Flatten cookies slightly with spoon. Bake until brown, about 10 minutes. Cool 5 minutes on cookie sheets. Transfer cookies to rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 4 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Hazelnut Sable Stars 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup powdered sugar
2 large egg yolks
4 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups finely chopped toasted hazelnuts (about 6 ounces)
4 ounces semisweet chocolate, melted

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Beat butter in large bowl until creamy. Gradually add sugar, beating until fluffy. Beat in yolks and vanilla. Beat in flour and salt. Stir in nuts. Transfer dough to work surface. Flatten into disk. Wrap in plastic; freeze until cold, about 10 minutes.
Roll out dough on floured surface to 1/3-inch thickness. Using 2- to 3-inch star cookie cutter, cut out cookies. Transfer to baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Gather dough scraps; reroll dough and cut out additional cookies. Bake cookies until pale golden (rotate baking sheets after 15 minutes), about 20 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack; cool.
Spoon chocolate into small plastic bag. Cut off tip from 1 bottom corner of bag to allow small ribbon of chocolate to come out. Drizzle chocolate over cookies. Let cookies stand until chocolate is set. (Can be made ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature up to 1 week or freeze up to 1 month.)

White Chocolate Cheesecake with Cinnamon and Lemon 
1 cup whole almonds, toasted
3/4 cup ground crisp lemon-flavored cookies (about 2 1/2 ounces)
3 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
3 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), chopped
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 cup sour cream, room temperature
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
2 teaspoons finely grated lemon peel
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
5 large eggs
4 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), chopped
1/4 cup whipping cream
2 teaspoons (packed) grated lemon peel
1/3 cup sliced almonds, toasted
White chocolate curls

Position rack in center or oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Wrap outside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with 2 layers of foil. Finely grind 1/2 cup almonds, cookies, sugar and lemon peel in processor. Add butter and 1/2 cup almonds. Process until nuts are chopped and moist clumps form. Press mixture onto bottom (not sides) of pan. Bake until crust is golden, about 20 minutes. Cook. Maintain oven temperature.
Stir white chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until chocolate melts. Cool to lukewarm, stirring occasionally.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Gradually beat in sour cream and juice, then melted chocolate, peel, vanilla and cinnamon. Beat in eggs 1 at a time.
Transfer filling to crust. Bake until edges of cheesecake puff and crack and center is just set, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Remove from oven. Run small knife around sides of cake to loosen. Remove foil. Chill cheesecake uncovered overnight.
Combine white chocolate and cream in top of double boiler set over simmering water. Stir until chocolate melts. Whisk in grated lemon peel. Cool to room temperature.
Release pan sides from cake. Transfer cake to platter. Pour topping over center of cake, spreading evenly and leaving 1/2-inch border around edge of cake. Garnish with sliced almonds and white chocolate curls. Chill until topping is cold. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; keep chilled.)

Blueberry Lemon Pound Cake 
1/3 cup milk
6 large eggs
1 1/2 tablespoons vanilla extract
2 2/3 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1 1/4 teaspoons salt
3 sticks (1 1/2 cups) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup freshly grated lemon zest
3 cups picked over blueberries, tossed with 1 1/2 tablespoons flour
1/3 cup fresh lemon juice
1/2 cup granulated sugar

In a small bowl whisk together the milk, the eggs, and the vanilla. Into a bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, and the salt. In a large bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the granulated sugar, the brown sugar, and the zest until the mixture is light and fluffy, add the flour mixture alternately with the egg mixture, beginning and ending with the flour mixture and beating the batter after each addition until it is just combined, and fold in 1 1/2 cups of the blueberries. Spoon one third of the batter into a greased and floured 10-inch (3-quart) bundt pan, spreading it evenly, and sprinkle 1/2 cup of the remaining blueberries over it. Spoon half the remaining batter into the pan, spreading it evenly, and sprinkle 1/2 cup of the remaining blueberries over it. Spoon the remaining batter into the pan, spreading it evenly, sprinkle the remaining blueberries over it, and bake the cake in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 1 hour to 1 hour and 10 minutes, or until it is golden and a tester comes out clean.
Remove the cake from the oven, poke the top immediately all over with a wooden skewer, and brush it with half the syrup. Let the cake cool in the pan on a rack for 10 minutes, invert it onto the rack, and poke it all over with the skewer. Brush the cake with the remaining syrup.
In a small saucepan combine the lemon juice and the sugar, bring the mixture to a boil, stirring until the sugar is dissolved, and remove the pan from the heat.

Ginger-Spice Cookies 
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 large egg
2 tablespoons mild-flavored (light) molasses
Sugar

Mix flour, cinnamon, ginger, baking soda, salt and cloves in medium bowl. Beat butter and brown sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in egg and molasses. Beat in dry ingredients (dough will be very soft). Cover bowl with plastic. Refrigerate overnight.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 large baking sheets. Place sugar in shallow dish. Form dough into 1 1/4-inch balls. Roll each ball in sugar to coat. Arrange cookies on prepared baking sheets, spacing 2 inches apart. Using bottom of glass, gently press dough balls to form 1 1/2- to 1 3/4-inch rounds. Bake until cookies puff slightly but are still soft, about 12 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Cranberry Cupcakes with Maple Cream-Cheese Frosting 
1/4 cup dried cranberries
6 tablespoon all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
a pinch freshly grated nutmeg
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup sugar
1 large egg, beaten lightly
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
2 tablespoons milk
1/4 cup (2 ounces) cream cheese, softened
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, softened
2 teaspoons pure maple syrup or honey

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and line six 1/2-cup muffin tins with paper liners.
In a small heatproof bowl cover cranberries with boiling water and soak 5 minutes.
While cranberries are soaking, into a bowl sift together flour, cornstarch, baking powder, cinnamon, nutmeg, and a pinch salt. In another bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugar until light and fluffy and beat in egg, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla. Stir in flour mixture and milk alternately in several batches, beginning and ending with flour and stirring until smooth
after each addition.
Drain cranberries and pat dry. Chop cranberries fine and stir into batter. Divide batter among muffin tins and bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, about 20 minutes.
In a bowl beat together frosting ingredients until smooth and chill.
Turn cupcakes onto a rack and cool 10 minutes. Spread cupcakes with frosting.

Chocolate Coconut Rum Cake 
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut
4 ounces semisweet chocolate, broken into pieces
5 tablespoons unsalted butter
3 tablespoons light or golden rum
4 large eggs, separated
1/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 tablespoon light or golden rum
1/4 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup confectioners' sugar

In a baking dish toast 2/3 cup of the coconut in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven until it just begins to color, transfer it to a small bowl, and let it cool.
In a metal bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water melt the chocolate and the butter with the rum, stirring, until the mixture is smooth and remove the bowl from the heat. In a bowl whisk together the yolks, 2 tablespoons of the sugar, the flour, and the salt until the mixture is smooth and whisk in the chocolate mixture and the remaining (untoasted) 1/3 cup coconut. In another bowl with an electric mixer beat the whites until they hold soft peaks and beat in the remaining 2 tablespoons sugar until the whites just hold stiff peaks. Stir half the whites into the chocolate mixture and fold in the remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Pour the mixture into a buttered 7- or 8-inch springform pan, bake the cake in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 40 to 45 minutes, or until it is set and the top is puffed and cracked, and let it cool in the pan on a rack. (The cake will fall as it cools.)
Remove the side of the pan from the cake and spread the frosting on the side of the cake. Holding the cake in one hand over the bowl of toasted coconut, with the other hand press the coconut onto the frosting, letting the excess fall back into the bowl.
The cake may be made 1 day in advance and kept covered loosely and chilled.
In a bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter, add the rum, the salt, and the confectioners' sugar, and beat the frosting until it is light and fluffy.

Chocolate Macaroon Ice Cream Sandwiches with Caramel Ice Cream 
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup water
4 cups whipping cream
6 large egg yolks
2 cups whole milk
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
2 2/3 cups powdered sugar
1 1/4 cups almonds (about 6 ounces)
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
4 large egg whites

Stir 1 1/4 cups sugar and water in heavy medium saucepan over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and boil without stirring until deep amber color, brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush and swirling pan occasionally, about 10 minutes. Remove from heat. Gradually add 2 cups cream. Return to low heat. Stir until caramel is smooth.
Whisk yolk and 1/4 cup sugar in large bowl until very thick and pale, about 2 minutes. Combine 2 cups cream and milk in heavy large saucepan. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean; add bean. Bring to boil. Gradually whisk into yolk mixture. Return to pan and stir over medium heat until custard thickens and coats spoon, about 4 minutes (do not boil). Remove from heat. Mix in caramel. Strain into bowl. Chill until cold, stirring often.
Freeze custard in ice cream maker. Transfer ice cream to bowl; freeze overnight or up to 3 days.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment. Finely grind 1 cup powdered sugar and almonds in processor. Transfer to large bowl. Mix in 1 2/3 cups powdered sugar and cocoa. Beat egg whites in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Fold into nut mixture in 2 additions.
Spoon batter into large pastry bag fitted with 1/2-inch plain tip. Pipe onto prepared sheets in 1 1/2-inch rounds, spacing apart. (Batter will spread to about 2- to 3-inch rounds).
Bake macaroons until puffed and dry-looking on top, about 12 minutes. Cool on sheets on racks. Using spatula, transfer macaroons to work surface.
Spoon 1/4 cup ice cream onto flat side of each of 5 macaroons. Top each with flat side of another macaroon; press lightly. Place sandwiches on baking sheets; cover and freeze. (Can be made 1 day ahead.)

Peach Raspberry Küchen 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter
1/3 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons light brown sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 firm-ripe peaches
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 pint raspberries
1/4 cup currant jelly, melted and cooled

In a small saucepan cook the butter over moderate heat until it is golden brown, being careful not to let it burn, let it cool, and chill it just until it is no longer liquid. (The butter may be browned 1 day in advance and kept covered and chilled. Let the butter soften at room temperature before using.) In a bowl cream together the browned butter, the granulated sugar, and the brown sugar and beat in the egg, the vanilla, and the almond extract. Into the bowl sift the flour, the baking powder, and the salt and beast the dough until it is just combined. Chill the dough for 30 minutes and press it onto the bottom and side of a 9-inch tart pan with a removable fluted rim.
In a saucepan of boiling water blanch the peaches for 1 minute, drain them, and refresh them under cold water. Peel the peaches, halve them, and cut 3 of the halves into 1/8-inch-thick slices, reserving the remaining half for another use. Arrange the slices decoratively, overlapping them slightly, in the shell, sprinkle them with the sugar, and bake the kuchen in the lower third of a preheated 375 degrees F. for 20 minutes. Arrange the raspberries decoratively over the peaches and bake the kuchen for 10 minutes more. Transfer the kuchen to a rack, brush the fruit with the jelly, and let the kuchen cool for 15 minutes. Remove the rim of the pan and serve the kuchen warm or at room temperature.

Coffee, Hazelnut and Raspberry Torte 
1 cup frozen unsweetened raspberries, thawed, drained
1 cup raspberry jam
2 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
10 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Bakers), chopped
1 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked
1 cup sifted all purpose flour
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 teaspoon instant coffee crystals
1/4 teaspoon salt
6 large eggs, separated
1/4 cup water
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Fresh raspberries (optional)

Press raspberries through fine sieve into small bowl. Press jam through same sieve into raspberry puree; discard seeds. Stir to blend well. Cover and chill overnight.
Combine 3/4 cup cream, white chocolate and coffee crystals in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over low heat just until chocolate melts, coffee dissolves and mixture is smooth. Remove from heat. Let stand until cool and thick, whisking occasionally, about 1 1/2 hours.
Using electric mixer, beat 1 3/4 cups cream in large bowl until firm peaks form. Fold large spoonful of whipped cream into chocolate mixture to lighten. Fold chocolate mixture into whipped cream in 4 additions. Cover and refrigerate frosting until very firm, about 6 hours. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead; keep chilled.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line three 9-inch diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides with parchment. Butter and flour parchment. Combine nuts, flour, 1/4 cup sugar, coffee crystals and salt in processor. Blend until nuts are finely ground.
Using electric mixer, beat yolks and 1/2 cup sugar in large bowl until very thick, about 5 minutes. Beat in water and vanilla. Stir in flour mixture. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1/2 cup sugar, beating until stiff but not dry. Fold into yolk mixture in 3 additions.
Transfer batter to prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 18 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks. Cut around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out; peel off parchment.
Place 1 cake on platter and second cake on piece of foil. Spread 1/3 cup filling over each; let stand 20 minutes to set up. Spread 1 cup frosting over each. Lift cake off foil; place atop cake on platter. Top with third cake. Spread remaining frosting over sides and top of torte. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate.)
Garnish torte with fresh berries, if desired. Cut into wedges and serve.

Lorrie's Mother's Fruitcake 
3 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 2/3 cups chopped pitted dates
1 cup chopped pecans
1 cup chopped walnuts
1/2 cup raisins
1/2 cup golden raisins
2 cups sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon lemon extract

Preheat oven to 325 degrees  F. Butter and flour 10-inch-diameter angel food or tube pan. Combine first 3 ingredients in large bowl. Add dates, pecans, walnuts and all raisins and toss to coat. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in another large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add extracts. Add dry ingredients; fold until just combined (batter will resemble cookie dough). Spoon batter into prepared pan. Smooth top. Bake until cake is golden and tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour and 45 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 10 minutes. Using sharp knife, cut around edges of cake to loosen. Turn out cake onto rack; cool completely. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Wrap tightly in plastic.)

Chocolate Buttermilk Layer Cake with Chocolate Pudding Frosting 
2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch process)
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 teaspoons double-acting baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups sugar
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup buttermilk
1 cup sugar
3 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped fine
1 cup boiling water
1 tablespoon orange-flavored liqueur
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces and softened

Line the bottom of 3 buttered 8-inch round (2-inch-deep) cake pans with wax paper, butter the paper, and dust the pans with flour, knocking out the excess. Into a bowl sift together the flour, the cocoa powder, the baking soda, the baking powder, and the salt. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together the sugar and the butter until the mixture is combined well, add the eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in the vanilla. Beat in the flour mixture alternately with the buttermilk in batches, beginning and ending with the flour mixture and beating well after each addition, divide the batter among the pans, smoothing the tops, and bake the layers in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Let the layers cool in the pans on racks for 10 minutes. Run a thin knife around the edge of each pan, invert the layers onto the racks, and let them cool completely. The cake layers may be made 2 days in advance and kept chilled, wrapped tightly in plastic wrap.
In a heavy saucepan whisk together the sugar, the cornstarch, a pinch of salt, and the chocolate and whisk in the boiling water. Bring the mixture to a boil over moderate heat, whisking constantly, and simmer it, whisking, for 2 minutes. Whisk in the liqueur, transfer the mixture to a metal bowl, and with an electric mixer beat in the butter, beating until the butter is incorporated. Set the bowl in a larger bowl of ice and cold water and beat the frosting until it is light and holds soft peaks.
On a cake stand arrange 1 cake layer, spread the top with some of the frosting, and top the frosting with a second cake layer. Spread the second layer with some of the remaining frosting and top the frosting with the remaining layer. Spread the side and top of the cake with the remaining frosting. The cake may be assembled 4 hours in advance and kept at room temperature.

Almond Praline Ice-Cream Cake 
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons whole almonds (about 7 ounces)
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
4 teaspoons cornstarch
6 large egg whites
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon almond extract
2 cups Almond Praline Butter
1 quart super-premium vanilla ice cream, barely softened
1 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons sugar

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F.
In a large baking pan toast almonds in one layer in middle of oven 15 to 20 minutes, or until fragrant and golden, and cool completely.
Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper.
Using a 9-inch springform pan as a guide, trace a circle on each piece of parchment and turn paper over. (Circle will show through.)
In a food processor pulse together almonds, 3/4 cup sugar, and cornstarch until almonds are ground fine. In the large bowl of a standing electric mixer beat egg whites with cream of tartar and salt until they hold soft peaks. Add almond extract and remaining 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating until meringue holds stiff, glossy peaks. Fold in almond mixture gently but thoroughly and divide meringue evenly between parchment circles, spreading it to fill in circles. Bake meringue layers in upper and lower thirds of oven 1 hour, or until golden. (Layers will not be completely firm.) Turn oven off. Switch positions of sheets and let layers stand in oven 2 hours, or until dry. Carefully peel off parchment. Meringue layers may be made 1 day ahead and kept, wrapped well in plastic wrap, in a cool, dry place (not the refrigerator).
With a small sharp knife trim edges of meringue layers just enough to fit inside springform pan. Put 1 layer in pan.
Scoop 1 pint ice cream and 1 cup praline butter into bowl of standing mixer and with paddle attachment distribute praline butter evenly throughout ice cream to marbleize it. (Do not over-mix or let ice cream melt.) Spread marbled ice cream over meringue layer in pan and top with remaining meringue layer, gently pressing it into ice cream. Freeze cake, covered with plastic wrap, 30 minutes.
Beat remaining 1 cup praline butter into remaining 1 pint ice cream in same manner as above and spread over meringue layer. Freeze cake, covered with plastic wrap, at least 30 minutes, or until ice cream is firm.
In a chilled bowl beat heavy cream with sugar until it just holds stiff peaks and spread over ice cream. Freeze ice-cream cake 30 to 45 minutes, or until whipped cream is firm. Cover cake with plastic wrap and foil and freeze at least 4 hours or overnight.
Immediately before serving the cake, wrap a warm dampened kitchen towel around side of pan and run a thin knife around cake to loosen it. Remove side of pan and transfer cake to a serving plate. Cut cake into wedges with a knife dipped repeatedly in hot water and serve garnished with pieces of almond praline if desired.

Chocolate Nut Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 cup walnuts
2/3 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2/3 cup almond paste (about 7 ounces)
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 large egg whites

In a bowl whisk together the flour, the baking powder, the salt, and the cocoa powder. In a food processor grind fine the walnuts with 2 tablespoons of the sugar, add the almond paste, and grind the mixture until it forms a paste. In the bowl of an electric mixer cream together the butter and the remaining 2/3 cup sugar, add the nut paste and the vanilla, and beat the mixture until it is combined well. Beat in the flour mixture at low speed until a dough is formed and beat in the egg whites until they are incorporated.
Working with half the dough at a time, roll out the dough 1/4 inch thick between sheets of plastic wrap, cut out diamond shapes with a 2-inch-wide cutter, and arrange them 1 1/2 inches apart on buttered baking sheets. Press ridges into the diamonds with the tines of a fork and bake the cookies in batches in the middle of preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 10 minutes. Let the cookies cool on the sheets on a rack for 2 minutes, transfer them carefully with a spatula to racks, and let them cool completely. The cookies may be made 3 days in advance and kept in airtight containers.

Cinnamon Roulade with Apple Raisin Filling 
1 Granny Smith apple
1 McIntosh apple
1/4 cup firmly packed brown sugar
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 cup raisins
1 teaspoon cornstarch
2 tablespoons dark rum
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream
1 teaspoon cinnamon
5 large eggs, separated, the whites at room temperature
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup cornstarch
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons cinnamon
confectioners' sugar for dusting the towel

In a saucepan combine the apples, peeled, cored, and chopped fine, the brown sugar, the butter, and 3/4 cup water, simmer the mixture, stirring occasionally, for 8 to 10 minutes, or until the apples are tender, and stir in the raisins. In a small bowl dissolve the cornstarch in 1/4 cup cold water, add the mixture to the apple mixture, and boil the mixture for 1 minute. Stir in the rum, boil the filling for 1 minute, and let it cool. The filling may be made 1 day in advance and kept covered and chilled.
Line the bottom of a buttered jelly-roll pan, 15 1/2 by 10 1/2 by 1-inches, with wax paper, butter the paper, and dust it with flour, knocking out the excess. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat the yolks, the granulated sugar, and the vanilla until the mixture is thick and pale and forms a ribbon when the beaters are lifted. In another bowl with the beaters, cleaned, beat the whites with the salt until they just hold stiff peaks, stir one third of them into the yolk mixture, and fold in the remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Sift the cornstarch, the flour, and the cinnamon over the egg mixture, fold the mixture in until the batter is just combined, and spread the batter evenly in the prepared pan. Bake the cake in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 6 to 8 minutes, or until the top is golden and a tester comes out clean. Dust a kitchen towel generously with the confectioners' sugar, invert the cake onto it, and peel off the wax paper carefully. Roll up the cake gently in the towel, starting with a long side, and let it cool completely on a rack.
Unroll the cake, spread it with the filling. Leaving a 1-inch border on the long sides, and reroll it gently. Transfer the_roulade_, seam side down, to a platter and trim the ends diagonally. In a bowl beat the cream until it holds soft peaks, sift the cinnamon over it, and beat the mixture until it holds stiff peaks. Transfer the cinnamon cream to a pastry bag fitted with a decorative tip and pipe it decoratively onto and around the_roulade_.

Coconut Shortcakes with Peaches and White Chocolate Cream 
6 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt), chopped
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
2 12-ounce cans peach nectar
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 cup sweetened shredded coconut, toasted
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon imitation coconut extract
1/2 cup whipping cream
3 large peaches, peeled, pitted, sliced

Melt chocolate with 1/4 cup cream in heavy small saucepan over low heat, stirring until smooth. Cool to room temperature. In medium bowl, beat 3/4 cup cream to stiff peaks. Fold cream into chocolate mixture in 2 additions. Cover; chill until firm, about 1 hour. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.)
Scrape seeds from vanilla bean into heavy large deep saucepan. Add peach nectar and sugar and simmer until reduced to 1 1/2 cups, about 55 minutes. Whisk in butter. Cool. (Can be prepared 8 hours ahead. Cover; let stand at room temperature.)
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Finely grind first 4 ingredients in processor. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl to blend. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in extract. Stir in dry ingredients alternately with cream. Spoon batter into pan. Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 10 minutes. Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn out onto rack; cool completely.
Cut cake into 6 wedges. Cut each wedge horizontally in half. Place cake bottoms on plates. Top with some peaches, then sauce. Top with some cream. Cover with more peaches and sauce. Prop tops against side of shortcakes.

Angel Food Cake with Strawberries and Devonshire Cream 
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup cake flour
2 cups large egg whites (about 15), room temperature
2 teaspoons cream of tartar
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Fresh sliced strawberries
Devonshire Cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. Sift 1/2 cup sugar and flour into medium bowl 3 times. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites, cream of tartar and salt in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1 cup sugar, beat until very stiff peaks form. Fold in flour mixture in 3 additions; fold in vanilla extract. Transfer batter to ungreased 10-inch-diameter by 4-inch-deep angel food cake pan.
Bake until cake is brown and crusty on top and tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 50 minutes. Turn pan upside down and fit center onto slender bottle neck. Cool cake completely. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto platter. Cut into wedges. Serve with strawberries and Devonshire Cream.

Strawberry Phyllo Shortcakes 
1 1/2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
two 17- by 12-inch sheets phyllo, thawed if frozen
1 1/2 cups strawberries, sliced thin
2 tablespoons honey
1 tablespoon currant- or citrus-flavored vodka if desired
lightly sweetened whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and brush a baking sheet with some butter.
On a work surface arrange 1 sheet phyllo with a long side facing you and brush evenly with some remaining butter. On this, layer and brush remaining sheet phyllo in same manner. Cut layered phyllo crosswise into 4 rectangles. Top 2 rectangles with other 2 rectangles and cut each stack into three 4-inch squares (for a total of 6 squares). On baking sheet bake phyllo squares in middle of oven until golden and crisp, about 12 minutes, and cool on a rack.
While squares are baking, in a bowl toss together strawberries, honey, and vodka until combined well.
Arrange 1 phyllo square on each of 2 plates and top with about one third strawberry mixture. Make 2 more layers with remaining 4 squares and strawberry mixture in same manner and top with whipped cream.

Poppy Seed Chocolate Torte 
4 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
6 large eggs, separated
1/2 cup poppy seeds, ground (about 3 1/4 ounces)
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
Powder sugar
Whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter and flour 9-inch-diameter spring-form pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Melt 4 ounces bittersweet chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water, stirring chocolate until smooth. Remove melted chocolate from over water. Cool chocolate 10 minutes.
Using electric mixer, 3/4 cup sugar, unsalted butter and vanilla extract in large bowl to blend. Add egg yolks 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add melted bittersweet chocolate; beat until just combined. Mix in poppy seeds. Using electric mixer fitted with clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in another large bowl until stiff but not dry. Fold half of beaten egg white into chocolate mixture. Fold flour into remaining beaten white. Fold egg white mixture into chocolate mixture.
Pour batter into prepared spring-form pan. Using spatula, smooth top. Bake until tester inserted into center of torte comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Transfer pan to rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover tightly with aluminum foil and store torte at room temperature.)
Cut around sides of pan to loosen torte. Remove pan sides. Sift powdered sugar over torte. Place on platter. Serve with whipped cream.

Buttermilk Cupcakes with Two Frostings 
twenty-four 2 1/2-inch paper muffin cup liners
4 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla
4 large eggs
2 cups well-shaken buttermilk
chocolate cream-cheese and lemon cream-cheese frostings
Garnish: India Tree brand sparkling sugar confetti* or other decorative sprinkles
*available at some specialty foods shops and by mail order from Dean & DeLuca, tel. (212) 226-6800, ext. 269

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and line twenty-four 1/2-cup muffin cups with paper liners.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugar until light and fluffy and beat in vanilla. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and with mixer on low speed beat in buttermilk until just combined. Add flour mixture in 3 batches, beating until just combined after each addition.
Divide batter among muffin cups (batter will fill cups) and bake in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of muffin trays halfway through baking, about 22 minutes, or until golden and a tester comes out clean. Cool cupcakes on racks 5 minutes and remove cupcakes from cups. Cupcakes keep in an airtight container at room temperature 2 days.
Spread chocolate frosting on half of cupcakes and lemon frosting on remainder and garnish cupcakes with sprinkles .

Marbled Sweet-Potato Cheesecake 
1 1/2 cups gingersnap cookie crumbs
1/2 cup (about 2 ounces) finely chopped pecans
1/3 cup unsalted butter, melted
1 16-ounce can sweet potatoes, well drained
2 8-ounce packages light cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 large eggs
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg

For Crust: Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. Mix crumbs, pecans and butter in medium bowl until well blended. Press mixture onto bottom and 1 1/2 inches up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Bake crust until set, about 8 minutes. Cool completely in pan on rack. Maintain oven temperature. For Filling: Puree sweet potatoes in processor. Measure 1 cup puree; reserve remainder for another use. Beat cream cheese, 1/2 cup sugar and vanilla in large bowl until blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well and scraping down sides of bowl after each addition. Transfer 1 cup cream cheese filling to small bowl. Add remaining 1/4 cup sugar, sweet potato puree, cinnamon and nutmeg to filling in large bowl and mix until smooth. Pour half of sweet potato filling into crust. Drizzle with half of plain filling. Swirl knife through batters to create marbled effect. Repeat layering with remaining sweet potato filling, then remaining plain filling. Swirl batters with knife again. Bake cake until filling is set, about 45 minutes. Cool. Refrigerate overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep refrigerated.) Using snall sharp knife, cut around cake and release pan sides. Cut into wedges and serve cold.

Lemon Blueberry Ice-Cream Cake 
1 1/2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 large eggs
1/2 cup whole milk
3 tablespoons finely grated fresh lemon zest
6 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
blueberry filling
7 cups lemon ice cream
Garnish: 2 cups blueberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 9-inch round cake pan (2 inches deep) and line bottom with a round of wax paper.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and 1 cup sugar until light and fluffy, about 1 minute. Separate eggs and beat yolks 1 at a time into butter mixture, beating well after each addition. In 3 batches alternately beat in flour mixture and milk, beginning and ending with flour mixture. Add zest and 2 tablespoons lemon juice, beating until just combined (do not overbeat). In a bowl with cleaned beaters beat whites until they hold soft peaks and beat in remaining 1/4 cup sugar. Fold whites into batter gently but thoroughly. Transfer batter to cake pan and bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, 35 to 40 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack and invert onto rack. Cake may be prepared up to this point 1 day ahead and kept in an airtight container at cool room temperature.
With a long serrated knife horizontally halve cake. Put bottom half, cut side up, in a 9-inch springform pan. Brush 2 tablespoons remaining lemon juice over layer. Working quickly, spread half of blueberry filling evenly over layer, leaving a 1/4-inch border around edge, and top with one third ice cream, spreading evenly. Put remaining cake half, cut side up, on top of ice cream and brush remaining 2 tablespoons lemon juice over it. Spread remaining blueberry filling evenly over top, leaving a 1/4-inch border around edge, and spread half of remaining ice cream evenly over filling. Reserve remaining ice cream for outside of cake. Freeze cake, covered, until firm, at least 8 hours, and up to 1 day.
Remove side of springform pan. With a spatula loosen cake from bottom and transfer to a plate. Frost cake with remaining ice cream, spreading evenly around sides and top of cake. Freeze cake, loosely covered, at least 2 hours and up to 5 days.
Twenty minutes before serving, garnish top of cake with blueberries and put cake in refrigerator to soften slightly.

Spicy Sugar Cookies 
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons fine sea salt
1 teaspoon ground black pepper
1/4 teaspoon cayenne pepper
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon finely minced peeled fresh ginger

Mix flour, salt, black pepper and cayenne pepper in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in egg, vanilla extract and ginger. Add dry ingredients and beat just until blended. Form dough into ball. Wrap in plastic; refrigerate at least 2 hours and up to 1 day.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Divide dough into 3 equal pieces. Roll each piece of dough between palms of hands and floured work surface to form 1 1/4-inch-diameter log. Cut logs into 1/4-inch-thick slices. Place on ungreased baking sheets.
Bake cookies until set but still very pale, about 12 minutes. Cool on racks. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Bittersweet Chocolate Pecan Bourbon Cake 
6 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate, chopped
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
6 large eggs, separated
1/4 cup bourbon
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1/2 cup pecans, toasted lightly, cooled, and chopped fine
6 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup heavy cream
4 pecan halves
lightly sweetened whipped cream as an accompaniment

Line the bottom of a buttered 8 1/2-inch springform pan with wax paper, butter the paper, and dust the pan with flour, shaking out the excess. In a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water melt the chocolates, stirring until the mixture is smooth, remove the bowl from the pan, and let the chocolate cool until it is room temperature. In the bowl of an electric mixer cream together the butter and the sugar until the mixture is pale and fluffy, add the chocolate, and beat the mixture until it is combined well. Beat in the egg yolks, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in the bourbon and the flour. In a large bowl beat the egg whites with a pinch of salt until they just hold stiff peaks, stir one third of them into the chocolate mixture to lighten it, and fold in the remaining whites and the chopped pecans gently but thoroughly. Turn the batter into the prepared pan and bake the cake in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 35 to 40 minutes, or until a tester inserted 2 inches from the rim comes out clean. (The center of the cake will remain moist.) Transfer the cake to a rack and let it cool completely. Remove the cake from the pan, invert it onto the rack, and remove the wax paper carefully. The cake may be made 1 day in advance and kept wrapped in plastic wrap at room temperature.
Put the chocolate in a small bowl, in saucepan bring the cream to a boil, and pour it over the chocolate. Stir the mixture until the chocolate is melted and the glaze is smooth.
Invert the cake onto rack set on wax paper, pour the glaze over it, smoothing the glaze over the top and side with a spatula, and arrange the pecan halves in the center of the cake. Let the cake stand 2 hours, or until the glaze is set, and serve it with the whipped cream.

Cinnamon-Nut Cake 
1/2 cup (1 stick) butter, room temperature
1 cup firmly packed brown sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup buttermilk
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
16 pecan halves

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 9-inch square baking pan with 2-inch high sides. Using electric mixer, cream butter with brown sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Add egg and vanilla and beat until well blended. Sift flour, baking powder and baking soda together; mix into butter alternately with buttermilk, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Pour into prepared pan.
Mix 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar and cinnamon in small bowl. Place pecan halves atop cake batter, spacing evenly. Press each nut 1 inch into batter. Spoon some sugar mixture into depressions created by pecans. Sprinkle remaining sugar over cake.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover tightly and store at room temperature.)

Almond Fortune Cookies 
1 large egg white
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup finely chopped sliced almonds
fortunes

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. and butter a large round area (about 6 inches) in middle of a baking sheet.
In a small bowl whisk egg white just until foamy. Add flour, sugar, almonds and a pinch salt and beat until smooth. Put 2 teaspoons batter on buttered area of baking sheet and with back of measuring spoon spread batter evenly into a round about 3 inches in diameter.
Bake cookie in middle of oven until golden around edge but pale in center, about 5 minutes. Working quickly, with a spatula remove cookie from baking sheet and invert onto a work surface. Put a fortune in middle of cookie and fold cookie in half. Bend pointed edges of cookie toward each other and hook them onto rim of a liquid measuring cup or deep heavy bowl to cool completely.
Make more cookies with remaining batter in same manner, letting baking sheet cool between cookies. Cookies may be made 3 days ahead and kept in an airtight container.

Mocha-Orange Cheesecake 
21 Pepperidge Farm Orange Milano cookies (10 ounces), broken into pieces
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1 1/2 teaspoons instant espresso powder
4 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
1/3 cup frozen orange juice concentrate, thawed
2 tablespoons coffee liqueur
2 tablespoons Grand Marnier or other orange liqueur
2 tablespoons instant espresso powder
3 large eggs
1 1/2 cups sour cream
6 tablespoons (packed) powdered sugar
4 teaspoons instant espresso powder
Orange slices (optional)
Chocolate curls (optional)

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Wrap outside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with foil. Combine all ingredients in processor. Process until moist crumbs form. Press crumbs onto bottom and 1 1/2 inches up sides of prepared pan. Bake crust until puffed and brown, about 15 minutes; cool. Maintain oven temperature.
Melt chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water, stirring until smooth. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Mix in chocolate. Add juice concentrate, liqueurs and espresso; beat until mixture is smooth. Beat in eggs, adding 1 at a time.
Spoon 1/3 cup batter into pastry bag fitted with 1/4-inch plain tip; chill. Pour remaining batter into crust. Bake until softly set in center and slightly puffed at edges, about 45 minutes. let cool 10 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Mix sour cream, powdered sugar and espresso powder in small bowl until espresso powder dissolves. Spread over hot cake. Pipe reserved 1/3 cup cake batter in parallel stripes (about 1/2 inch apart) over topping.
Bake cake until topping is set, about 5 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen crust. Place cake immediately into refrigerator. Chill completely, about 8 hours. ( Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.)
Cut around pan sides; release. Top with oranges and chocolate, if desired.

Strawberry Cream Cake 
2 pounds strawberries (about 3 pints)
1/3 cup sugar
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
3 large egg yolks
1/4 cup sugar
1 cup half-and-half
1 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon Punsch (Swedish liqueur) if desired
1 1/2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
9 large eggs
1 1/4 cups sugar
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons sugar
Garnish: strawberries

Trim and slice strawberries and in a bowl stir together with sugar and lemon juice. Let strawberry mixture stand at room temperature, stirring occasionally, 4 hours. In a large sieve set over a bowl drain strawberry mixture and reserve strawberries and liquid separately.
In a saucepan whisk together all custard ingredients except Punsch until combined well. Bring mixture to a boil over moderate heat, whisking constantly, and simmer, whisking constantly, 1 minute. Whisk Punsch into custard and transfer to a heatproof dish. Cool custard, its surface covered with a round of wax paper. Chill custard, covered, at least 3 hours, or until cold, and up to 2 days.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. Butter two 9- by 2-inch round cake pans and line bottoms with rounds of wax paper. Butter paper and dust pans with flour, knocking out excess flour.
Into a small bowl sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. In bowl of a standing electric mixer combine eggs and sugar and beat, beginning at moderate speed and gradually increasing to high speed, for a total of 9 to 10 minutes, or until very thick and pale and mixture forms a ribbon when beaters are lifted. Transfer egg mixture to a large bowl (for ease of folding).
Sift one third flour mixture over egg mixture and with a large rubber spatula fold in gently but thoroughly. Sift and fold remaining flour mixture into egg mixture in 2 more batches in same manner. Fold in butter and vanilla gently but thoroughly.
Divide batter between pans, smoothing tops, and bake in middle of oven, rotating pans on oven rack after 15 minutes (to ensure even baking), a total of 25 to 30 minutes, or until cake is springy to the touch and a tester comes out clean. Cool cake layers in pans on racks 10 minutes and invert onto racks. Peel off paper and cool completely. Layers may be made 1 day ahead of cake assembly and kept, wrapped tightly in plastic wrap, at room temperature.
With a long serrated knife halve each cake layer horizontally to make a total of 4 layers. Put 1 cake layer, cut side up, on a serving plate and top with half of reserved strawberry slices, arranging them in an even layer. Drizzle half of reserved strawberry liquid evenly over berries.
Top filling with second cake layer, cut side down. Whisk custard until smooth and spread layer evenly with custard. Top custard with third cake layer, cut side up. Spread layer evenly with remaining strawberries and drizzle with remaining strawberry liquid. Top filling with remaining cake layer, cut side down. Chill cake, covered with plastic wrap, at least 8 hours and up to 1 day.
In a chilled bowl beat cream with sugar until cream just holds stiff peaks.
Spread frosting over top and sides of cake. Cake may be frosted 4 hours ahead and chilled. Bring cake to cool room temperature before serving.
Garnish top of cake with strawberries.

Lemon Cupcakes with Lemon Cream 
3/4 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 1/2 teaspoons freshly grated lemon zest
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
1 tablespoon plus 2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
2 large eggs
1/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon cream cheese (about 2 ounces), softened

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. and line four 1/2-cup muffin tins with paper liners.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking powder, and salt and whisk in 2 teaspoons zest. In another bowl with a fork blend butter, 1/2 cup sugar, and 1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon juice until smooth. With a wooden spoon beat in eggs, 1 at a time, until smooth. Stir butter mixture into flour mixture until batter is combined well.
In a small bowl with a fork stir together cream cheese and remaining 1/2 teaspoon zest, 1 tablespoon sugar, and 1 teaspoon juice until lemon cream is smooth.
Spoon 3 level tablespoons batter and about 1 tablespoon lemon cream into each paper liner. Spoon remaining batter over lemon cream, smoothing tops. Bake cupcakes in middle of oven 20 minutes, or until golden brown, and transfer to a rack to cool. Makes 4 cupcakes, serving 2 with leftovers.

Blueberry Coffee Cake 
2 1/3 cups all purpose flour
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup flaked sweetened coconut
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup milk
1 12-ounce package frozen blueberries, unthawed, or 2 1/2 cups fresh

Combine 1/3 cup flour, 1/4 cup butter, coconut, brown sugar and cinnamon in medium bowl. Mix until moist and crumbly. Set topping aside.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter and flour 13x9x2-inch baking pan. Sift remaining 2 cups flour, baking powder and salt into small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat remaining 1/2 cup butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add 1 cup sugar, beating until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating to blend after each addition. Mix dry ingredients into batter alternately with milk in 3 additions each. Fold in blueberries.
Transfer cake batter to prepared baking pan. Sprinkle topping evenly over batter. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean and topping is golden brown, about 40 minutes. Cool cake slightly. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Chocolate Currant Cake with Tangy Chocolate Frosting 
1/2 cup dried currants
2 tablespoons whiskey
1 1/4cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4cups sugar
1 cup plain low-fat yogurt
2/3 cup vegetable oil
1/4 cup whole milk
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips
Tangy Chocolate Frosting

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13x9x2-inch metal baking pan. Combine currants and whiskey in small bowl. Let stand 20 minutes.
Sift flour, cocoa, baking soda and salt into medium bowl. Whisk sugar, yogurt, oil, milk, eggs and vanilla in large bowl. Mix in dry ingredients. Fold in currant mixture and chocolate chips. Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool completely in pan on rack.
Spread Tangy Chocolate Frosting over cooled cake and serve.

Double-Chocolate Tangerine Mousse Cake 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
9 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup sugar
5 large eggs
1/2 cup ground toasted hazelnuts
3 cups strained fresh tangerine or orange juice
1/3 cup sugar
2 1/2 teaspoons unflavored gelatin
3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
14 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Callebaut or Lindt), chopped
6 tablespoons sour cream
2 cups chilled whipping cream
9 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Callebaut or Lindt)
Unsweetened cocoa powder
Fresh raspberries
Fresh mint sprigs

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom with parchment. Butter parchment. Dust pan with flour. Melt butter and chocolate in heavy large saucepan over low heat, stirring constantly until smooth and melted. Remove from heat and whisk in sugar, eggs and ground nuts. Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake cake until toothpick inserted into center comes out with very moist crumbs attached, about 45 minutes. Cool completely on rack (cake will fall and crack).
Release cake pan sides. Turn out cake onto work surface. Peel off parchment. Cut off outer 1/2-inch edge of cake. Clean cake pan. Reattach cake pan sides; brush sides of pan with vegetable oil. Set cake in center of pan (there will be space around cake that will be filled in with mousse). Refrigerate cake.
Boil tangerine juice and sugar in heavy large saucepan until reduced to 1 1/2 cups, about 20 minutes.
Meanwhile, sprinkle gelatin over lemon juice in small bowl. Let stand 10 minutes to soften.
Add gelatin mixture to tangerine juice mixture and stir to dissolve. Add 14 ounces white chocolate and whisk over low heat just until melted. Whisk in sour cream. Pour into large bowl. Chill mixture until cool and thickened but not set, whisking occasionally, about 1 hour 45 minutes.
Beat chilled whipping cream to stiff peaks. Fold into white chocolate mixture. Pour mousse over cake in pan, covering top and sides completely. Refrigerate cake overnight.
Using vegetable peeler, shave 9 ounces white chocolate into thin curls (if white chocolate is too hard to shave, place briefly in warm place to soften slightly). Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Place cake on platter. Sprinkle chocolate curls over top of cake. Press more chocolate curls around sides of cake, covering completely. Place cocoa powder in fine sieve. Dust cocoa very lightly over chocolate curls. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.) Garnish cake with raspberries and mint sprigs. Serve cold.

Spice Cake with Molasses Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup apple butter
3/4 cup buttermilk
1/2 cup vegetable oil
3 large eggs
2 tablespoons unsulfured (light) molasses
1 cup golden raisins
1 1/2 pounds cream cheese, room temperature
2 cups powdered sugar
2 tablespoons unsulfured (light) molasses
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
1 tablespoon whipping cream
1 1/2 cups chopped toasted walnuts

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Combine first 6 ingredients in large bowl. Whisk apple butter, buttermilk, oil, eggs, molasses and raisins in medium bowl to blend. Stir apple butter mixture into dry ingredients. Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake until tester inserted into center of cakes comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Transfer cakes to racks and cool 20 minutes. Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn cakes onto parchment-lined racks and cool completely.
Beat cream cheese and sugar in medium bowl until smooth. Add molasses, butter and vanilla and beat just until smooth. Place 1 cake layer on plate. Spread 1 1/2 cups frosting over. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining frosting decoratively over top and sides of cake. Refrigerate while preparing caramel.
Stir sugar and cream in heavy small saucepan over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Boil and stir 1 minute. Let stand until very thick but still pourable, about 5 minutes. Drizzle caramel over cake. Press nuts onto sides of cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; chill. Bring to room temperature before serving.)

Banana Cake with Sour Cream Frosting 
2 cups all purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 large eggs
1 1/4 cups sour cream
1 1/3 cups mashed ripe bananas (about 3 large)
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2/3 cup powdered sugar
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter and flour 13 x 9 x 2-inch metal baking pan. In medium bowl, combine flour, baking soda, baking powder and salt. Using electric mixer, beat butter and 1 1/2 cups sugar in large bowl until blended. Add eggs and beat until fluffy. Mix in 3/4 cup sour cream, bananas and lemon juice. Add dry ingredients to banana mixture and beat until well blended. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until top is golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool completely on rack. (Can be prepared 2 weeks ahead. Cover cake and freeze. Thaw before continuing.)
Beat remaining 1/2 cup sour cream, powdered sugar and cream cheese in large bowl until well blended. Spread frosting over cooled cake.

Apricot, Cornmeal, and Sage Cookies 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened well
3/4 cup sugar
1 large egg
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 cup chopped dried apricots
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh sage leaves
1/2 cup cornmeal
1/2 teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and lightly grease 2 baking sheets.
In a bowl whisk together butter, sugar, and egg until smooth. Sift in flour and baking soda and add apricots, sage, cornmeal, and salt, stirring until combined.
Drop tablespoons of dough about 1 inch apart onto baking sheets and bake in batches in middle of oven 10 minutes, or until pale golden. Cool cookies on sheets 2 minutes and transfer to a rack to cool.

Lemon Cornmeal Cake with Raspberry Filling 
2 cups frozen unsweetened raspberries, thawed
2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon cornstarch
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
3 large eggs
1 1/4 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup yellow cornmeal
6 teaspoons grated lemon peel
2 teaspoons lemon extract
2 cups chilled whipping cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon lemon extract
3 teaspoons grated lemon peel
3/4 cup sliced almonds, toasted

Puree berries in processor. Strain into heavy medium saucepan. Add sugar and cornstarch. Stir over medium heat until mixture boils and thickens, about 3 minutes. Cool. Cover; chill until cold, about 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom with parchment paper. Butter parchment. Dust pan with flour; shake out excess. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Sift flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Stir in cornmeal. Add to butter mixture and beat just until blended. Mix in lemon peel and extract.
Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until cake is golden and toothpick inserted into center comes out with a few moist crumbs attached, about 35 minutes. Transfer cake to rack, cool. Using knife, cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn cake out. Peel off parchment.
Beat cream, sugar and extract in large bowl until soft peaks form. Beat in 1 1/2 teaspoons lemon peel. Set aside 2/3 cup frosting for decoration.
Using serrated knife, cut cake horizontally into 3 layers. Using bottom of 9-inch-diameter tart pan as aid, transfer 1 layer to platter. Spread half of filling over. Spread 1 cup frosting over filling. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining filling over. Spread 1 cup frosting over filling. Top with third cake layer. Spread sides and top of cake with remaining frosting. Press nuts onto sides of cake. Spoon reserved 2/3 cup frosting into pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Pipe around top edge of cake. Sprinkle top of cake with 1 1/2 teaspoons lemon peel. (Can be made 4 hours ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.)

Quick and Easy Spice Cake 
2 1/2 cups bleached all purpose flour
2 teaspoons pumpkin pie spice
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups firmly packed dark brown sugar
1/2 cups (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 egg
1 cup buttermilk
1 cup chopped walnuts
Rum raisin or vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 8-inch square metal baking pan. Mix first 4 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Whisk sugar, butter and egg in large bowl until smooth. Whisk in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk, beginning with dry ingredients. Fold in nuts. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted in center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool slightly in pan on rack. Serve warm with ice cream.

Coconut-Rum Roulade 
1 1/2 cups sweetened shredded coconut, toasted
1/4 cup all purpose flour
6 large eggs, separated, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 cup canned sweetened cream of coconut (such as Coco Lopez)
1 cup whipping cream
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon peel
5 large egg yolks
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
9 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 tablespoon white rum
1/4 teaspoon imitation coconut extract
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup sour cream
3 tablespoons white rum
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sweetened shredded coconut, toasted
8 thin lemon slices, cut into quarters

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 11x17-inch jelly roll pan. Line with parchment. Finely grind coconut and flour in processor. Using electric mixer, beat yolks and 1/4 cup sugar in large bowl until pale yellow and slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are lifted, about 5 minutes. Stir in lemon peel. Using clean dry beaters, beat whites and salt in another bowl until medium peaks form. Gradually beat in remaining 1/4 cup sugar and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into yolk mixture in 2 additions. Gently fold in coconut mixture. Spread batter evenly into prepared pan. Bake until toothpick inserted into center comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Slide cake on parchment onto rack; cool. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Return cake to pan. Cover with plastic; store at room temperature.)
Bring first 3 ingredients to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Whisk yolks and flour in bowl to blend. Gradually whisk in some of hot cream mixture. Return mixture to saucepan and stir over medium heat until custard boils and thickens, about 2 minutes. Pour mixture into bowl. Cool to lukewarm. Add butter and whisk until smooth. Whisk in rum and coconut extract. Cover and chill until very thick but still spreadable, about 1 hour. Slide cake on parchment onto work surface. Run long sharp knife between cake and parchment to loosen.
Spread filling over cake, leaving 3/4-inch border. Starting at 1 long side, roll up cake jelly roll style. Transfer to platter seam side down. (Can be prepared 8 hours ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
Whip cream, sour cream, rum, sugar, lemon peel and vanilla in medium bowl to stiff peaks. Spread frosting over cake. Press coconut onto sides of cake, leaving 2-inch-wide strip without coconut down center. Decorate center strip with lemon.

Walnut Maple Torte with Maple Meringue Frosting 
1 cup walnuts
1 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon instant espresso powder
1 tablespoon boiling-hot water
1 1/2 sticks (1/8 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
3 large eggs
1 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil
6 ounces cream cheese, softened
5 tablespoons pure maple syrup
2 large egg whites
1 cup pure maple syrup
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. and butter and flour two 8-inch round cake pans, knocking out excess flour.
On a baking sheet toast walnuts in middle of oven until 1 shade darker, about 8 minutes, and cool. In a food processor grind walnuts fine.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking powder, and a pinch salt. In a small cup stir together espresso powder and water. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugar until light and fluffy and add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in flour mixture, espresso, walnuts, and oil until just combined.
Spoon batter into cake pans, smoothing tops, and bake in middle of oven about 25 minutes, or until pale golden and a tester comes out clean. Cool cake layers in pans on a rack 15 minutes. Run a thin knife around edges of pans and invert cake layers onto rack to cool completely.
In a small bowl beat together cream cheese and 2 tablespoons maple syrup until smooth.
Arrange 1 cake layer on an ovenproof serving plate and with a pastry brush gently brush top with 1 1/2 tablespoons maple syrup. Spread cream cheese mixture evenly onto layer and top with remaining layer. Brush top of torte with remaining 1 1/2 tablespoons maple syrup. Torte may be prepared up to this point 2 days ahead and chilled, covered. Bring torte to room temperature before proceeding.
Let whites stand at room temperature 1 hour. In a 1-quart heavy saucepan bring maple syrup to a boil over moderate heat and simmer until a candy thermometer registers 235 degrees  F. (be careful it doesn―t bubble over).
While maple syrup is simmering, in bowl of a standing electric mixer beat whites with cream of tartar and a pinch salt until they just hold stiff peaks. Add hot maple syrup in a stream, beating until meringue is thickened and glossy, 1 to 2 minutes.
Preheat broiler.
Immediately frost torte with a narrow metal spatula, mounding extra meringue on top and drawing it up with a fork to form peaks (see photograph, page 111). Broil torte about 4 inches from heat until tops of peaks are pale golden, about 30 seconds. Let torte stand at room temperature 15 minutes before serving.

Apple-Walnut Cake 
2 cups diced peeled tart green apples (such as Granny Smith; about 1 1/2 large)
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled
1 large egg
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup coarsely chopped walnuts

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter and flour 8x8x2-inch baking pan. Mix diced apples, sugar, butter and egg in large bowl to blend. Sift flour, cinnamon, baking soda and salt over. Add chopped walnuts; mix thoroughly. Transfer mixture to prepared pan.
Bake until cake is brown and crusty on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack.

Hazelnut-Cinnamon Biscotti 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked (about 4 ounces)
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 tablespoon grated orange peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 large eggs

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray large baking sheet with vegetable oil spray. Mix flour, baking powder, salt and cinnamon in medium bowl; set aside. Coarsely chop hazelnuts in processor. Transfer to small bowl. Combine sugar and butter in processor; blend until fluffy. Add orange peel and vanilla extract and blend well. Add eggs 1 at a time, blending just until incorporated after each addition. Add flour mixture; mix using on/off turns until just blended. Mix in hazelnuts using on/off turns until just blended.
Turn dough out onto floured work surface. Divide dough in half. Roll each half into 9-inch-long, 2-inch-wide log. Space logs 3 inches apart on prepared baking sheet. Flatten each to 12-inch-long, 2 1/2-inch-wide log. Bake until very light golden and firm to touch, about 25 minutes. Cool on baking sheet 5 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Using metal spatula, transfer logs to work surface. Using serrated knife, cut logs diagonally into 3/4-inch-wide slices. Place slices, cut side down, on large baking sheet. Bake 15 minutes. Turn biscotti over; bake until light golden and firm, about 15 minutes longer. Transfer biscotti to racks and cool. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Almond-Scented Macaroons 
1 1/2 cups (packed) shredded sweetened coconut (about 6 ounces)
6 tablespoons sweetened condensed milk
1 tablespoon all purpose flour
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
Dash of salt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 heavy large baking sheets. Combine all ingredients in large bowl; stir to blend well. Drop by scant tablespoonfuls onto prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 1/2 inches apart. Shape cookies into small mounds, about 1 inch in diameter. Press tops slightly to flatten. Bake until pale golden, about 8 minutes. Transfer each baking sheet to rack. Cook cookies on sheets 5 minutes. Using metal spatula, transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. (Can be prepared up to days ahead. Store at room temperature in airtight container.)

Sour Cream Chocolate Cake 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch process)
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sour cream
1/3 cup water
2 teaspoons vanilla
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/3 cups firmly packed light brown sugar
3 large eggs
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup whipped cream cheese
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate, melted and cooled
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease and flour two 9-inch round cake pans, knocking out excess flour.
Into a bowl sift together flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. In a small bowl whisk together sour cream, water, and vanilla.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add flour mixture to butter mixture in batches alternately with sour cream mixture, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating until batter is blended well.
Divide batter between prepared pans and smooth tops. Bake layers in middle of oven 25 to 30 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Cool cake layers in pans on racks 10 minutes before turning out onto racks to cool completely. Cake layers may be made 1 week ahead and frozen, wrapped well in plastic wrap. Thaw layers before proceeding with recipe.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and cream cheese until light and fluffy. Add remaining ingredients and beat until combined well.
Arrange 1 cake layer on a large plate and spread with about 3/4 cup frosting. Top frosting with remaining cake layer. If making tepee birthday cakes, stop here and reserve remaining frosting. If making conventional layer cake, spread top and side of cake with remaining frosting.

Chocolate Mint Icebox Cake 
1/3 cup loosely packed fresh mint leaves, rinsed, spun dry, and chopped fine, plus, if desired, mint sprigs for garnish
3 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder
1 cup heavy cream, chilled
a 9-ounce package chocolate wafers

In a bowl of an electric mixer combine the mint leaves, the sugar, the cocoa powder, and the cream, beat the mixture until it holds soft peaks, and spread about 1 mounded teaspoon of it on one side of each wafer. On a platter sandwich the wafers together on their sides to form a log and ice the log with the remaining cream mixture, covering it completely. Chill the cake, covered loosely with plastic wrap, for at least 6 hours or overnight. Cut the cake diagonally into 3/4-inch-thick slices and serve it garnished with the mint sprigs.

Age of Lincoln Almond-Streusel Bundt Cake with Coffee Glaze 
1/2 cup firmly packed brown sugar
1/2 cup chopped toasted almonds
1/3 cup old-fashioned oats
1 1/2 teaspoons instant espresso powder or instant coffee powder
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
3 cups sifted cake flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 cup whole almonds, toasted
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup almond paste
1 2/3 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1 cup milk
6 large egg whites, room temperature
1 cup powdered sugar, sifted
1/4 cup whipping cream
1 teaspoon instant espresso powder or instant coffee powder
1/3 cup toasted sliced almonds

Mix first 5 ingredients in small bowl. Add butter and rub in with fingertips until well blended. Set aside.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. Butter and flour 12-cup Bundt pan. Mix flour and baking powder in small bowl. Finely grind almonds in processor. Using electric mixer, beat butter and almond paste in large bowl until blended. Gradually beat in 1 1/3 cups sugar. Continue beating until fluffy. Beat in extract. Stir in dry ingredients alternately with milk. Mix in ground almonds. Using electric mixer fitted with clean dry beaters, beat whites in another large bowl to medium peaks. Gradually add remaining 1/3 cup sugar and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold meringue into batter in 2 additions. Transfer half of batter to prepared Bundt pan. Sprinkle streusel over. Spoon remaining batter over. Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool cake in pan on rack 20 minutes. Turn out cake onto rack and cool completely. (Cake can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.)
Stir powdered sugar, whipping cream and instant espresso powder in small bowl until well blended. Drizzle glaze over cake, allowing excess to run down sides. Sprinkle cake with sliced almonds.

Un-Rugelach Mini Turnovers 
1/2 of an 8-ounce package cream cheese, softened
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 cup (sifted into the cup and leveled off) bleached all-purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon salt
approx. 3 tablespoons granulated sugar
2 tablespoons, packed light brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 cup + 2 tablespoons golden raisins
1/2 cup coarsely chopped walnuts
1/3 cup apricot lekvar or preserves (well stirred)
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 tablespoons milk
Two 12- by 17-inch cookie sheets or inverted half-size sheet pans, lined with parchment or foil

In a food processor with the metal blade, place the cream cheese and butter and process until smooth and creamy, scraping the sides once or twice. Add the sugar and vanilla and process for a few seconds to incorporate them. Add the flour and salt and pulse just until the dough starts to clump together.
In a mixing bowl, beat the cream cheese and butter until blended. Beat in the sugar and vanilla extract. On low speed, beat in the flour and salt just until incorporated
Scrape the dough into a piece of plastic wrap and press it together to form a ball. Place the dough in a bowl, cover it well, and refrigerate for at least 2 hours, or overnight.
In a medium bowl, with a fork, stir together the sugars, cinnamon, raisins and walnuts until well mixed.
Using a 1 1/4 inch cookie scoop or a tablespoon measure, scoop out level measures of dough, placing them on a cookie sheet. Refrigerate the dough. Remove one piece of dough and roll it quickly between floured palms to form a ball. Dust it well with flour and place it between two sheets of plastic wrap. Use the flat bottom of a tumbler to press the ball flat and then a light rolling pin to roll it into a 3 1/2-inch circle. Remove the top sheet of plastic wrap and spread rounded 1/2 tablespoons of apricot lekvar or preserves evenly over the dough, almost to the edge. Carefully place 2 teaspoons of the nut mixture on one half of the dough circle, leaving a narrow border. Use the plastic wrap to lift the other half of the dough up and over the filling to encase it. Leaving the plastic wrap in place, press along the border of the dough to seal in the filling. Remove the plastic wrap, brush away any excess flour, and place the turnover on a prepared cookie sheet. Repeat with the remaining dough and filling, leaving at least 1 1/2 inches between each turnover. For the best shape, cover the turnovers with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes before baking.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. at least 15 minutes before baking. Set the oven racks so that they divide the oven into thirds.
In a small bowl, stir together the sugar and cinnamon for the topping.
With a pastry brush or feather, brush each turnover with milk and sprinkle evenly with the sugar and cinnamon topping.
Bake for 15 to 20 minutes or until lightly browned. For even baking, rotate the cookie sheets from top to bottom and back to front halfway through the baking period. Use a small pancake turner to transfer the turnovers to wire racks to cool completely.
Airtight, room temperature, up to 5 days; frozen, up to 3 months.
This cream cheese dough can be more fragile and tender than the one used for pies and tarts (it contains no water to develop gluten), because it does not need strength due to the small size of the pastries.

Cinnamon-Chocolate Ribbon Cake 
4 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
3 cups cake flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
2 cups sugar
1 cup vegetable oil
1 cup whole milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/3 cup whipping cream
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
6 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Butter 9 1/2- to 10-inch-diameter angel food cake pan. Line pan bottom with waxed paper; butter paper. Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted. Remove from over water.
Sift flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat eggs in large bowl until foamy. Add sugar and beat until thick and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Gradually beat in oil. Beat in milk and vanilla. Add dry ingredients and beat just until blended.
Transfer 1 1/2 cups batter to small bowl; mix in melted chocolate. Mix cinnamon into remaining batter. Spread half of cinnamon batter in prepared pan. Spoon chocolate batter over. Top with remaining cinnamon batter. Using small knife, swirl batters to marbleize slightly.
Bake cake until test inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides and center tube. Turn cake out onto rack; peel off paper. Turn right side up; cool.
Combine cream, butter and corn syrup in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium heat until mixture simmers. Remove from heat; add chocolate. Whisk until chocolate melts and glaze is smooth. Let cool until glaze thickens slightly but is still spreadable, stirring occasionally, about 30 minutes.
Place cake on platter. Slide waxed paper strips under edge of cake. Spread glaze over cake. Remove paper. Chill until glaze sets. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and keep chilled. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.)

Chocolate Layer Cake with Chocolate Glaze 
1 1/2 cups milk (do not use low-fat or nonfat)
1/2 cup sugar
3 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
5 large egg yolks
6 ounces milk chocolate, chopped
1 tablespoon butter
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/3 cups all purpose flour
2/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup strong fresh-brewed coffee
3/4 cup buttermilk
6 tablespoons vegetable oil
2 large eggs, beaten to blend
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Chocolate Glaze

Bring milk to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Remove from heat. Combine sugar and cornstarch in large bowl. Beat egg yolks into sugar mixture. Gradually whisk hot milk into yolk mixture. Return mixture to saucepan. Whisk over medium heat until mixture boils and thickens, about 1 minute. Remove from heat; add chocolate, butter and vanilla and whisk until mixture is smooth. Transfer filling to medium bowl. Cool, stirring occasionally. Gently press plastic wrap directly onto surface of filling; cover and chill until cold, at least 3 hours.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 17 1/4 x 11 1/2 x 1-inch jelly roll pan. Line pan with parchment paper. Sift first 6 ingredients into large bowl. Whisk coffee, buttermilk, oil, eggs and vanilla in medium bowl. Add liquid ingredients to dry ingredients; mix just until combined. Transfer batter to prepared pan, spreading evenly. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan on rack. Using small knife, cut around edges of pan. Turn cake out onto work surface. Peel off parchment. Trim tough edges. Cut cake crosswise into three 5x10 1/2-inch pieces. (Filling and cake can be made ahead. Keep filling refrigerated up to 2 days. Wrap cake layers in plastic and refrigerate up to 1 day.)
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread half of filling over top. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining filling over. Top with third cake layer. Pour lukewarm glaze over top and sides of cake, covering completely. Smooth sides with spatula. Refrigerate 2 hours. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead; cover and keep refrigerated.)

Double Lemon Cheesecake 
12 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
2 eggs
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 purchased 9-inch graham cracker crust
1 cup sour cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Blend first 6 ingredients in processor until smooth. Pour mixture into crust. Bake until cake filling is just set, about 35 minutes. Cool cheesecake slightly.
Combine 1 cup sour cream, 2 tablespoons sugar and 1 teaspoon vanilla in small bowl. Spread mixture evenly over cheesecake. Bake 10 minutes. Cool. Refrigerate cake overnight. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead.) Cut into wedges and serve.

Traditional Provencal Christmas Cake 
1 1/2 teaspoons active dry yeast
2 tablespoons orange-flower water
3 1/4 cups unbleached, all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon sea salt
4 large eggs, lightly beaten
3/4 cup sugar
6 tablespoons olive oil
Zest of 1 lemon, minced
1/2 teaspoon anise seeds
1/4 cup candied fruit, diced

In a small bowl, stir the yeast into the orange-flower water. Let it sit until dissolved, about 5 minutes.
Sift the flour and salt into a large bowl. Make a well in the flour and add the eggs, sugar, oil, and the yeast mixture. Mix the liquid ingredients together, using your fingers, until blended. Add the zest, anise seeds, and candied fruit.
Gradually incorporate the flour into the liquid mixture, mixing just until it is all combined. Then knead four or five times. The dough will be quite sticky; lightly dust the work surface with flour and use a plastic dough scraper to help you knead.
For the dough into a ball and place it in a bowl. Cover the bowl with a damp cloth and let it sit in a warm sot (68 degrees -70 degrees F.) until it has risen by half, about 2 hours.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly oil two baking sheets.
Punch down the dough and divide it in half. Knead both batches slightly on a well-floured work surface (use no more than 3 tablespoons flour to dust the work surface) to remove any air pockets. Roll each half out between two sheets of parchment paper to form a 12 x 8-inch oval that is about 1/4-inch thick, and transfer them to the prepared baking sheets. (To do this, peel off the top piece of paper, flip the bread over onto the baking sheet, and remove the second piece of paper. Or roll the dough over a rolling pin, then unroll it on the baking sheet. The soft dough will stretch some, but don't be concerned).
Make a design on each loaf: Working quickly and using a sharp knife, cut a 2 1/2 inch diameter circle in the center of the rolled out dough, cutting all the way through the dough but leaving the circle in place, Then cut five rays out from the circle so the design resembles a sun. Let the dough rise in a warm spot (68 degrees -70 degrees F.) until it has risen slightly, about 30 minutes.
Bake the pompes in the center of the oven until they are golden and puffed, and have developed a scattering of small bumps on their surfaces, about 25 minutes.
Remove the pompes from the oven and transfer them to wire racks to cool. Serve at room temperature.

Almond Tuiles 
vegetable-oil cooking spray or parchment paper
1/2 cup almonds, ground fine
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 large egg whites
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
about 2/3 cup sliced blanched almonds, toasted

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Coat a heavy baking sheet well with cooking spray or line with parchment paper.
In a bowl whisk together ground almonds, flour, sugar, and salt and whisk in whites, butter, and almond extract until combined well. Drop rounded teaspoons batter about 4 inches apart onto baking sheet and with back of a spoon spread into 3 1/2-inch rounds. Sprinkle each cookie with about 1/2 tablespoon sliced almonds and bake in middle of oven 8 minutes, or until golden.
Working quickly, remove cookies, 1 at a time, from baking sheet with a thin spatula and drape over a rolling pin to create a curved shape. (If the cookies become too brittle to form on the rolling pin, return baking sheet to oven a few seconds to allow cookies to soften.) Cool cookies completely on rolling pin and transfer to an airtight container. Make more cookies with remaining batter in same manner, spraying or lining baking sheet for each batch. Tuiles may be made 2 days ahead and kept in an airtight container at room temperature.

Pear Gingerbread Upside-Down Cakes 
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 Anjou pears, peeled, halved, cored
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup unsulfured (light) molasses
1 large egg
1/2 cup hot water
1/4 cup finely chopped crystallized ginger (about 1 1/2 ounces)

Butter six 1 1/4-cup custard cups. Place on baking sheet. Melt 6 tablespoons butter in medium saucepan over low heat. Add 3/4 cup brown sugar; whisk to blend (mixture will look grainy). Divide among prepared cups. Slice each pear half into 1/3-inch-thick wedges. Cut wedges crosswise in half. Place 6 pointed pear pieces in spoke pattern in each cup. Finely chop enough of remaining pear pieces to measure 3/4 cup.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Sift flour, baking soda, ground ginger, cinnamon, cloves and salt into medium bowl. Melt 1/2 cup butter in small saucepan over low heat. Transfer to large bowl; cool slightly. Add 1/2 cup brown sugar. Using electric mixer, beat until well blended. Gradually beat in molasses. Mix in egg. Add dry ingredients; beat until well blended. Beat in hot water. Add crystallized ginger and chopped pears; stir until incorporated.
Spoon batter over pears in custard cups. Place in oven on baking sheet. Bake until cakes feel firm to touch and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool 5 minutes. Invert onto plates. Let stand 10 minutes. Serve warm.

Cherry Almond Cake 
1 pound sour cherries (about 3 cups) plus additional for garnish if desired
1/4 pound blanched whole almonds
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon granulated sugar
3 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
confectioners' sugar for dusting the cake

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Line the bottom of a buttered 9- by 2-inch round cake pan with a round of wax paper, butter the paper, and dust the pan with flour, knocking out the excess. Working over a bowl pit 1 pound of the cherries, reserving any juice.
In a food processor grind fine the almonds with the flour, the baking powder, and the salt. In a bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with 3/4 cup of the granulated sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, add the egg yolks, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and stir in the flour mixture, the vanilla, the almond extract, and the reserved cherry juice.
In another bowl with the electric mixer, beaters cleaned, beat the egg whites until they just hold stiff peaks, stir one fourth of them into the batter to lighten it, and fold in the remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Turn the batter into the pan, smoothing the top, arrange the cherries evenly on it, pressing them into the batter slightly, and sprinkle them with the remaining 1 tablespoon granulated sugar. Bake the cake in the middle of the oven for 30 to 35 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean, and let it cool in the pan on a rack for 10 minutes. Invert the cake onto the rack, invert a cake plate over it, and invert the cake onto the plate. Dust the cake with the confectioners' sugar and garnish it with the additional cherries. Serve the cake warm or at room temperature.

Cornmeal Cranberry Cookies 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup yellow cornmeal
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 sticks (1 1/2 cups) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla
2 cups dried cranberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
In a bowl whisk together flour, cornmeal, baking powder, and salt. In a large bowl with an electric mixer cream together butter and sugar until light and fluffy and beat in eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add flour mixture and vanilla and stir until combined well. Stir in cranberries.
Drop dough by rounded teaspoons 2 inches apart onto greased baking sheets and bake cookies in batches in middle of oven 16 to 18 minutes, or until golden. Transfer cookies with a spatula to racks to cool. Cookies keep in airtight containers 5 days.

Choco-Colada Cheesecake 
2 cups (about 7 1/2 ounces) chocolate wafer cookie crumbs
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
6 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
4 large eggs, room temperature
2 tablespoons whipping cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
2 cups (lightly packed) sweetened shredded coconut
Additional sweetened shredded coconut

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Wrap outside of pan with heavy-duty foil. Combine cookie crumbs and butter in medium bowl; mix to blend. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of prepared pan. Bake crust until firm to touch, about 8 minutes. Cool crust completely. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until smooth. Remove from over water. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until smooth. Gradually add sugar, beating until blended. Beat in flour. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating to blend after each addition. Beat in cream and both extracts. Stir in 2 cups coconut.
Transfer filling to crust. Drizzle melted chocolate over filling. Using small knife, swirl chocolate and coconut batter together on surface, forming decorative pattern. Place cake in large baking pan. Add enough hot water to baking pan to come 1 inch up sides of cake pan. Bake cake until just set in center and firm around edges, about 1 hour 15 minutes.
Remove cake from water. Cool on rack. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Cover cake with plastic and refrigerate overnight. Let stand at room temperature 30 minutes before serving.
Release springform pan sides. Transfer cake to platter. Sprinkle additional coconut around top edge of cake.

Strawberry Shortcake with Buttermilk Biscuits 
2 1-pound baskets strawberries, hulled, halved (or quartered if very large; about 7 cups)
1/2 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons raspberry preserves
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Buttermilk Biscuits
Powdered sugar

Combine strawberries, 1/2 cup sugar and raspberry preserves in large bowl; toss to coat. Let stand until syrup forms, tossing occasionally, about 1 hour.
Beat chilled whipping cream, vanilla extract and remaining 3 tablespoons sugar in another large bowl until stiff peaks form. (Can be made 6 hours ahead. Cover separately and chill.)
Cut Buttermilk Biscuits in half. Place each biscuit bottom in shallow bowl. Top each generously with strawberries and whipped cream. Cover fruit and cream with biscuit tops. Dust biscuits with powdered sugar and serve.

Chocolate-Filled Almond Macaroons 
7 ounces almond paste
1 cup sugar
2 large egg whites
40 whole almonds (about)
1/4 cup whipping cream
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
1/2 teaspoon grated orange peel
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Generously butter heavy large nonstick cookie sheets. Blend almond paste, sugar and egg whites in processor until smooth. Drop dough by slightly rounded teaspoonfuls onto prepared sheets, spacing evenly. Press 1 almond onto each mound. Bake until cookies are golden brown, about 10 minutes. Let cookies rest on sheets until just cool to touch, about 5 minutes. Using spatula, transfer cookies to rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Store cookies in airtight container at room temperature.)
Bring cream, butter and orange peel to simmer in heavy small saucepan. Reduce heat to low. Add chocolate and stir until mixture is smooth. Remove from heat and let ganache stand until thick but spreadable, about 20 minutes.
Spread some ganache over flat side of 1 cookie. Sandwich with flat side of another cookie. Repeat with remaining cookies and ganache. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate in airtight container. Bring cookies to room temperature before serving.)

Swedish Ginger Thins 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cloves
1/2 cup well-chilled heavy cream
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup dark corn syrup
Garnish: sliced almonds

Into a large bowl sift together flour, baking soda, and spices. In a medium bowl with an electric mixer beat cream until it just holds stiff peaks. In another large bowl beat butter and sugar until mixture is light and fluffy and on low speed beat in corn syrup and whipped cream, beating until cream is just combined. Add flour mixture and beat until combined well. Form dough into a disk. Chill disk, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, at least 2 hours, and up to 2 days.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Cut dough into quarters and work with 1 quarter at a time, keeping remaining dough covered and chilled. Using a rolling pin with cover dusted with flour, roll out dough into a round on a floured pastry cloth, rolling dough as thin as possible (less than 1/8 inch thick and about 14 inches in diameter) and with assorted 2- to 3-inch cutters cut out cookies. Carefully transfer cookies as cut to ungreased baking sheets with a metal spatula, arranging them about 1/2 inch apart, and top each with an almond slice. Reroll scraps and cut out more cookies in same manner.
Bake cookies in batches in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until cookies puff and then collapse slightly, about 6 minutes. Cool cookies on sheets 1 minute and transfer with metal spatula to racks to cool completely. Make more cookies with remaining dough in same manner. Cookies keep in airtight containers at room temperature 1 week.

Warm Lemon Pudding Cakes with Marbled Raspberry Cream 
3/4 cup plus 4 tablespoons sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
3 large eggs, separated
1/3 cup all purpose flour
1/3 cup fresh lemon juice
1 1/2 cups milk (do not use low-fat or nonfat)
Powdered sugar
Marbled Raspberry Cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter six 3/4-cup soufflé dishes or custard cups. Place dishes in large roasting pan. Using electric mixer, beat 3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar, 6 tablespoons butter and lemon peel in medium bowl until well blended. Add egg yolks 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in flour, then lemon juice. Gradually mix in milk (mixture will be thin and may look curdled).
Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in large bowl until soft peaks form. Add remaining 2 tablespoons sugar and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into yolk mixture in 3 additions (mixture will be runny).
Divide pudding-cake mixture among prepared soufflé dishes. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to come halfway up sides of dishes.
Bake pudding cakes until puffed and firm to touch, about 25 minutes. Transfer dishes to plates. (Can be prepared 8 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature.) Sprinkle with powdered sugar. Top with dollop of Marbled Raspberry Cream.

Praline Cheesecake with Hazelnut Crust 
1/2 cup coarsely chopped hazelnuts
1/2 cup light corn syrup
1/2 cup firmly packed brown sugar
6 whole graham crackers, broken into pieces
1/2 cup hazelnuts (about 2 ounces)
2 tablespoons dark brown sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
2 tablespoons Frangelico (hazelnut liqueur)
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup plus 1/3 cup sugar
4 eggs separated
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup all purpose flour
3 tablespoons Frangelico
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup chilled whipping cream
2 tablespoons sugar
Roasted hazelnuts
Cocoa powder

Lightly butter cookie sheet. Stir chopped hazelnuts, corn syrup and brown sugar in heavy small saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and boil mixture until candy thermometer registers 300 degrees F., tilting pan if necessary to submerge end of thermometer, about 10 minutes. Pour praline mixture onto prepared cookie sheet. Let cool. Break praline into 1-inch pieces. Grind finely in food processor. (Praline can be prepared up to 1 week ahead. Wrap tightly in aluminum foil and refrigerate.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Finely grind graham crackers, hazelnuts and brown sugar in processor. Add butter and Frangelico and process until crumbs are evenly moistened. Press crumb mixture onto bottom of prepared pan. Bake 10 minutes. Cool on rack. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese with 1/2 cup sugar until light and fluffy. Add yolks 1 at a time, beating after each addition until just blended. Add sour cream, flour, Frangelico and vanilla and beat just until mixture is smooth. Stir in ground praline. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1/3 cup sugar and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold egg whites into cream cheese mixture in two additions. Pour filling into prepared crust.
Bake cake until center is just set, about 50 minutes. Turn off oven and leave cake in oven 40 minutes longer.
Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool to room temperature. Cut around pan sides with small sharp knife to loosen cheesecake. Cover and refrigerate overnight. Release pan sides. Beat whipping cream and 2 tablespoons sugar to firm peaks. Transfer to pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Pipe rosettes of cream decoratively around edge of cake. Arrange 1 hazelnut atop each rosette. Dust top of cheesecake with cocoa powder. (Can be prepared 4 hours ahead; refrigerate.)

Langues-de-Chat 
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup egg whites (about 2 large)
6 tablespoons all purpose flour
Pinch of salt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 large baking sheets. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in medium bowl until well blended. Beat in lemon peel and vanilla. Add egg whites and beat 30 seconds. Add flour and salt; beat just until blended
Spoon batter into pastry bag fitted with 1/3-inch plain round tip. Pipe batter onto baking sheets in 2 1/2-inch-long strips, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake until edges are golden, about 10 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks; cool (cookies will crisp as they cool). (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.).

Panettone Filled with Candied-Fruit Pastry Cream 
1 1-pound 10 1/2-ounce purchasedpanettone bread or one 2-pound panettone
Rum mixture (reserved from Candied-Fruit Pastry Cream)Candied-Fruit Pastry Cream
5 ounces semisweet chocolate,chopped
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1/3 cup sliced almonds, toasted

Turn panettone upside down. Peel paper off flat end but leave paper on sides. Using serrated knife and starting 1/2 inch from edge, cut around edge and down to 1 inch from rounded end of panettone (do not perforate top). Turn bread rounded side up. Insert serrated knife into side of bread just above paper and cut 3-inch-long horizontal slit. Insert knife in slit (do not perforate sides) and cut cylinder-shaped center of bread free. Insert fingertips into slit; press down to release cylinder. Remove cylinder; cut horizontally into 4 rounds.
Place bread flat end up in bowl. Brush inside with some of rum mixture. Spoon 1 cup pastry cream into bread. Top with 1 bread round. Brush with some of rum mixture. Repeat layering twice with pastry cream, bread rounds and rum mixture. Cover with remaining bread round. Turn flat side down onto platter. Chill 4 hours.
Stir chocolate and butter in heavy saucepan over low heat until smooth.
Peel paper from sides of bread. Pour chocolate mixture over top, allowing to drip down sides. Sprinkle with almonds. Chill at least 6 hours or overnight.

Chocolate Ginger Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
4 teaspoons ground ginger
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup apple juice
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 teaspoon cider vinegar
Powder sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 9-inch round cake pan with 1 1/2-inch-high sides with vegetable oil spray. Line bottom of pan with parchment. Sift flour, 3/4 cup sugar, cocoa powder, ginger, baking soda, cinnamon and salt into large bowl. Whisk juice, oil and vinegar in medium bowl to blend. Add to dry ingredients; stir just until moistened. Spoon batter into prepared pan. Using spatula, smooth top.
Bake until cake begins to pull away from sides of pan and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Transfer pan to rack and cool.
Using knife, cut around sides of pan to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto platter. Turn cake right side up. Sift powdered sugar over top. Cut into wedges.

Coconut Tuiles 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
3 tablespoons sugar
1 large egg white at room temperature
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 cup sweetened flaked coconut

In a bowl cream together the butter and the sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, add the egg white and the vanilla, and beat the mixture until it is just combined. Sift the flour over the mixture, fold it in, and fold in the coconut. Working in batches drop the batter by rounded teaspoons 4 inches apart into well-buttered baking sheets and pat it into 3-inch rounds with the back of a fork dipped in water. Bake the cookies in batches in the middle of a preheated 425 degrees F. oven for 4 to 5 minutes, or until they are golden around the edges. Working quickly loosen the cookies carefully with a metal spatula, transfer them to a rolling pin, pressing gently to curl them around the pin, and let them cool completely on the pin. (If the cookies become too firm to remove from the baking sheet, return them to the oven for a few seconds to soften.) The tuiles may be made 1 day in advance and kept in an airtight container.

Island Macaroons 
3 cups sweetened flaked coconut
1 cup unsalted macadamia nuts, chopped
2/3 cup sweetened condensed milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 egg whites
Pinch of salt
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped, melted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place coconut and macadamia nuts on large cookie sheet. Bake until lightly toasted, stirring frequently, about 12 minutes. Cool. Maintain oven temperature.
Line 2 large cookie sheets with parchment paper. Grease parchment. Combine condensed milk and vanilla in large bowl. Mix in coconut and macadamia nuts thoroughly. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites and salt until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into coconut mixture. Drop batter by rounded tablespoons onto prepared cookie sheets. Bake until macaroons just turn golden brown around edges, about 14 minutes. Cool completely on cookie sheets.
Line another cookie sheet with waxed paper. Dip cookie bottoms into melted chocolate. Place cookies, chocolate side down, on prepared cookie sheet. Refrigerate until chocolate is set, about 15 minutes. (Can be prepared 4 days ahead. Store cookies in airtight container in refrigerate.)

Ginger Almond Wafers 
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, diced
1 tablespoon minced peeled fresh ginger
1 tablespoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup whole almonds, toasted
3 tablespoons whipping cream
3 tablespoons chopped crystallized ginger
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line 2 heavy large baking sheets with parchment paper. Combine first 7 ingredients in processor and blend using on/off turns until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add almonds, cream and crystallized ginger and process just until moist clumps form. Shape dough into 1 1/4-inch-diameter balls. Place on prepared sheets. Moisten bottom of glass; dip into powder sugar and press each dough ball to 1/4-inch thickness.
Bake cookies until brown on bottom and edges, about 28 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool. (Store airtight at room temperature.)

Frozen White Chocolate and Raspberry Mousse Torte 
1 (9-ounce) box chocolate wafer cookies, broken into pieces
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1/3 cup Chambord (black raspberry-flavored liqueur) or crème de cassis (black currant-flavored liqueur)
1 1/2 teaspoons unflavored gelatin
2 (12-ounce) packages frozen unsweetened raspberries, thawed, drained, juices reserved
1/2 cup sugar
12 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's finely chopped
2 cups chilled whipping cream
3/4 cup powdered sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2-pint basket raspberries
Chocolate Leaves

Finely grind cookie pieces in processor. Add butter; blend until crumbs are moist. Press mixture onto bottom and halfway up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Freeze while preparing mousse.
Place liqueur in heavy medium saucepan. Sprinkle gelatin over liqueur; let stand until gelatin softens, about 20 minutes.
Press raspberries firmly through sieve into large measuring cup. Add enough reserved juices to puree in cup to measure 1 2/3 cups berry mixture. Add berry mixture and 1/2 cup sugar to gelatin mixture. Stir over medium-low heat just until sugar and gelatin dissolve, about 3 minutes. Remove from heat. Add white chocolate; stir until melted. Transfer raspberry mixture to large bowl. Chill until thick but not set, stirring often, about 2 hours.
Beat cream, powdered sugar and vanilla in bowl until stiff peaks form. Fold cream into raspberry mixture in 3 additions. Transfer mousse to crust; smooth top. Freeze until firm, at least 6 hours. (Can be made 4 days ahead. Cover; freeze.)
Cut around pan sides; release pan sides. Place torte on platter. Arrange raspberries around top edge of torte. Decorate with Chocolate Leaves.

Double Chocolate Cherry Torte 
1 1/2 cups pitted picked-over fresh tart cherries, halved (about 1 pint)
3/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon kirsch
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter
3 large eggs
6 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened)
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup semisweet chocolate chips
Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream

Preheat oven to 325 degrees  F. and butter and flour a 9-inch springform pan, knocking out excess flour.
In a bowl stir together cherries, 1/4 cup sugar, and kirsch and macerate 15 minutes.
Cut butter into pieces and separate eggs. Coarsely chop bittersweet chocolate and in a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water melt chocolate with butter, stirring occasionally. Remove top of double boiler or bowl from heat and cool mixture slightly. Stir in yolks, flour, and salt until combined well. Gently stir in cherries and chocolate chips until just combined.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat whites until they hold soft peaks and gradually add remaining 1/2 cup sugar, beating until whites just hold stiff glossy peaks. Stir half of whites into chocolate mixture to lighten and fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Pour batter into pan and smooth top. Bake torte in middle of oven 50 minutes to 1 hour, or until a tester comes out with crumbs adhering.
Cool torte in pan on a rack (top will fall slightly and crack). Run a thin knife around edge of torte and remove side of pan. Torte may be made 1 day ahead and kept, loosely covered with plastic wrap, at cool room temperature.
Serve torte with whipped cream.

Sweet Olive Oil Quick Bread 
2 1/2 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
pinch salt
1 cup sugar
2 eggs, lightly beaten
3/4 cup milk
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1/2 cup unsulfured sultana raisins
grated zest of 1 lemon
unsalted butter for loaf pan
1/4 cup pine nuts

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
In a mixing bowl, stir together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Stir in the sugar. Add the eggs, milk, and olive oil, and beat well.
Toss the raisins in a little flour to coat them lightly. Add the raisins and lemon zest to the flour and egg mixture and stir to distribute evenly.
Butter and flour a loaf pan. Transfer the batter into the pan and smooth the surface. Sprinkle the top with pine nuts. Bake for 55 mintues, or until a thin skewer inserted in the center comes out dry. Let cool for a few minutes. Unmold and cool on a rack.

Apple Ginger Upside-Down Cake 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted
1/4 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
2 tablespoons finally chopped crystallized ginger plus additional for garnish
2 tablespoons currants or raisins
1 larger MacIntosh or Granny Smith apple, peeled, cored, and sliced thin
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
2 large eggs
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
whipped cream or vanilla ice cream as an accompaniment

Onto an 8-inch round cake pan pour the butter, swirling the pan, and sprinkle it with brown sugar, 2 tablespoons of the ginger, and the currants. In a small bowl toss the apple slices with the lemon juice and arrange them evenly over the currants. Into another small bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, the salt, and the cinnamon. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat the eggs with the granulated sugar and the vanilla for 3 to 5 minutes, or until the mixture is thick and pale and forms a ribbon when the beaters are lifted. Fold in the flour mixture gently but thoroughly, pour the batter over the apple slices, and bake the cake in the middle of a preheated 400 degrees F. oven for 20 to 25 minutes, or until the tester comes out clean. Run a sharp knife around the edge of the pan, invert the cake onto a serving plate, and serve it warm with the whipped cream, sprinkled with the additional ginger.

Nutmeg Crumb Cake 
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1 teaspoon grated nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup buttermilk or plain yogurt
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 large egg yolk

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Coat an 8-inch square baking pan with nonstick oil spray.
Melt the butter in a medium saucepan or in a mixing bowl in a microwave oven.Stir in the flour, brown sugar, and nutmeg until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs. Measure out and reserve 1/2 cup of the crumbs.
In a small bowl, whisk the baking soda into the buttermilk or yogurt, then whisk in the vanilla and egg yolk. Stir the liquid ingredients into the dry ingredients. Spread the batter evenly in the pan, then sprinkle with the reserved 1/2 cup crumbs.
Bake until golden brown and a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Serve warm or at room temperature on the day of baking. (The cake may be covered and frozen for up to 1 month.)

Rainbow Cookies 
7 ounces marzipan paste or almond paste
1 cup sugar
3 sticks unsalted butter, softened
4 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon almond extract
2 cups sifted all-purpose flour (sift before measuring)
1/4 teaspoon salt
5 drops green food coloring, or to desired color
5 drops red food coloring, or to desired color
12-oz jar raspberry jam (preferably seedless)
6 ounces semisweet chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and grease 3 (13- by 9-inch) metal baking pans. Line bottom of each with wax paper, letting it extend at 2 opposite ends, and grease paper. Break marzipan paste into small pieces and grind with sugar in food processor until no lumps remain. Transfer to a large bowl and add butter. Beat with an electric mixer until light and fluffy, then add yolks and almond extract and beat well. Beat in flour and salt on low speed. Beat egg whites in another bowl with cleaned beaters until they just hold stiff peaks and stir one third into batter to lighten slightly (batter will still be stiff). Fold in remaining whites thoroughly. Divide dough into thirds (about 1 1/2 cups each). Stir green food coloring into one third and red food coloring into another, leaving one third plain. Spread each dough separately into a pan. (Layers will be thin.)
Bake layers in batches in middle of oven until just set and beginning to turn golden along edges, 7 to 10 minutes total. Run a knife along edges to loosen from pan, then while still hot, invert a large rack over pan and invert layer onto rack, pulling gently on wax paper overhangs to release if necessary. Peel off wax paper and cool completely.
Line a large shallow baking pan with wax paper and slide green layer into it. Spread half of jam evenly over green layer and carefully top with plain layer. Spread remaining jam evenly over uncolored layer and carefully top with pink layer (trim edges if necessary). Cover with plastic wrap and weight with a large cutting board or baking pan. Chill at least 3 hours.
Melt chocolate in a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water. Remove weight and plastic wrap and spread chocolate evenly over top, but not sides, of pink layer. Let stand at room temperature until set, about 1 hour, and cut into small diamonds (12 rows crosswise and 12 diagonal rows).

Orange-Almond Lace Cookies 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
1 1/2 cups finely chopped almonds
3/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon all purpose flour
2 teaspoons grated orange peel
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 large egg, beaten to blend

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line large baking sheet with parchment paper. Stir 3/4 cup butter in heavy medium saucepan over medium-low heat until melted. Remove from heat. Stir in nuts, sugar, flour, orange peel and salt; then stir in egg. Drop some batter by generous tablespoonfuls onto prepared baking sheet, spacing 3 inches apart (cookies will spread).
Bake cookies until lacy and golden brown, about 15 minutes. Gently slide parchment paper with cookies onto rack; cool completely. Transfer cookies to paper towels. Repeat with remaining batter, lining cooled baking sheet with clean parchment for each batch. (Can be made ahead. Store between sheets of waxed paper in airtight container at room temperature up to 1 week or freeze up to 1 month.)

Cranberry Pear Hazelnut Financier 
1 cup hazelnuts (about 4 ounces)
1 medium firm-ripe pear
1 cup fresh or frozen cranberries, rinsed and picked over
1 cup sugar
2/3 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon salt
6 large egg whites
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
confectioners' sugar for sprinkling
Accompaniment: whipped cream or vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and butter and flour a 9- by 2-inch round cake pan.
Spread hazelnuts in a shallow baking pan and toast in oven until they begin to turn pale golden, 7 to 10 minutes. Cool hazelnuts completely. Discard any hazelnut skins that rub off easily. Increase oven temperature to 400 degrees F.
Peel and core pear. Chop pear coarse and in a bowl toss with cranberries and 1/4 cup sugar.
In a food processor grind nuts with remaining 3/4 cup sugar, flour, and salt until fine.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat whites with a pinch salt until they just hold stiff peaks and fold in nut mixture gently but thoroughly. Fold in butter and vanilla (the batter will deflate) and spread batter evenly in cake pan. Arrange fruit mixture evenly over batter and bake in middle of oven 40 to 45 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean.
Cool cake in pan on a rack 5 minutes and invert onto a plate. Cool cake, fruit side up, on rack until ready to serve.
Sprinkle cake with confectioners' sugar and serve warm or at room temperature with whipped cream or ice cream.

Mississippi Mud Cake 
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups firmly packed dark brown sugar
1 cup sugar
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped, melted
1/4 cup whipping cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
6 large eggs, room temperature
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 cups mini marshmallows
2 cups coarsely chopped toasted pecans (about 7 ounces)
1 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
1 cup whipping cream
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
5 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
2 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) chocolate, chopped
2 tablespoons dark corn syrup
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line two 9-inch square cake pans with 2-inch-high sides with foil, extending foil over sides. Butter and flour foil. Using electric mixer, cream butter and both sugars in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in melted chocolate, cream and vanilla. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Sift flour, cocoa, baking soda and salt into medium bowl. Stir dry ingredients into batter, which will be very thick. Divide batter between prepared pans; spread evenly. Bake until tester inserted into centers comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Remove from oven. Sprinkle 1 1/2 cups marshmallows and 1 cup pecans over each cake. Bake just until marshmallows begin to melt, about 6 minutes. Transfer to racks. Cool cakes completely in pans.
Combine sugar and cream in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Cook without stirring until candy thermometer registers 220 degrees F., about 8 minutes. Remove from heat and whisk in remaining ingredients. Whisk until all chocolate melts and frosting is smooth. Refrigerate frosting until spreadable, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Using foil as aid, lift cakes from pans. Remove foil. Place 1 cake layer on plate, marshmallow side up. Spread 1 1/2 cups frosting over. Top with second cake layer, marshmallow side up. Spread remaining frosting in waves on sides (not top) of cake. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and chill. Bring to room temperature before serving.)

Chocolate-Peanut Butter Pinwheel 
6 ounces semisweet chocolate chips
1/2 cup chunky peanut butter
3/4 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 1/4 cups sifted all-purpose flour (sift before measuring)
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt

Melt chocolate in a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water, stirring occasionally, and remove from heat. Stir in peanut butter.
Beat together butter and sugar with an electric mixer until light and fluffy, then beat in egg and vanilla. Sift flour, baking powder, and salt into egg mixture and beat until combined well.
Halve dough and roll out each half between sheets of wax paper into a roughly 12- by 8-inch rectangle. Remove top sheets of wax paper (if they stick too much, chill dough briefly to firm up slightly) and divide chocolate filling between rectangles, spreading it in an even layer. Tightly roll up each rectangle jelly-roll fashion, beginning with a long side and using wax paper as an aid, to form a 12-inch log. Wrap rolls in wax paper and then foil. Chill rolls until firm, at least 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Working with 1 roll at a time (keep remaining roll chilled), cut rolls crosswise into 1/8-inch-thick slices and arrange slices 1 inch apart on ungreased baking sheets. Bake in batches in middle of oven until pale golden and set, 8 to 12 minutes. Transfer warm cookies to racks to cool.

Brandy Snap Twirls 
1/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
5 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons Lyle's golden syrup
1 tablespoon water

Preheat oven to 375 degrees  F. and butter a heavy baking sheet.
Into a small bowl sift together flour, ginger, and cloves. In a small saucepan melt butter with sugar, golden syrup, and water over moderate heat, stirring until smooth. Stir in flour mixture until combined well and let stand 2 minutes. Spoon 1 1/4 teaspoons batter onto baking sheet and spread into a 6-inch length. Make 2 or 3 more cookies in same manner, keeping them 2 inches apart. Bake cookies in middle of oven 7 to 10 minutes, or until golden brown, and cool on baking sheet on a rack 30 to 45 seconds, or until firm enough to hold their shape but still pliable.
Working quickly, wrap hot cookies, 1 at a time, in a spiral around handle of a wooden spoon. (If cookies become too crisp to remove from baking sheet, return baking sheet to oven 1 minute, or until cookies are heated through and pliable.) Cool cookies 20 seconds and slide off spoon handle. Make more cookies with remaining batter in same manner. Brandy snap twirls may be made 2 weeks ahead and kept in an airtight container at room temperature.

Golden Fruitcake 
1 7-ounce package marzipan, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1 1/4 cups chopped dried Calimyrna figs (about 6 ounces)
3 cups combined chopped dried pears, dried apricots and pitted dates (about 15 ounces total)
1 cup golden raisins (about 5 ounces)
1/2 cup brandy
4 8 x 3 3/4 x 2 1/2-inch disposable aluminum loaf pans, 8 1/2 x 3 1/2 x 2-inch corrugated paper baking loaf forms*or 8 1/4 x 4 1/4 x 2 1/2-inch metal loaf pans
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
8 large eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon ground cardamom
1 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 cups pine nuts (about 6 ounces), toasted
*Corrugated paper baking loaf forms are available at some cookware stores or by mail from Sur La Table; call 800-243-0852.

Place marzipan on plate; cover with plastic wrap. Freeze overnight. Combine dried figs and next 3 ingredients in large bowl. Cover and let stand at room temperature overnight, stirring occasionally.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter baking pans or forms. Beat 1 1/2 cups butter, sugar and brown sugar in large bowl until light. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then vanilla, cardamom, nutmeg and salt. Stir in flour in 4 additions. Stir in pine nuts, dried fruit mixture and any soaking liquid from bowl. Gently stir in marzipan.
Divide batter among prepared pans. Place pans on baking sheet. Bake until tester inserted into center of cakes comes out clean, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Cool cakes completely in pans on racks. Wrap in plastic. Let stand at least 1 day and up to 3 days at room temperature or chill up to 2 weeks. Serve at room temperature.

Lemon Thins 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2/3 firmly packed light brown sugar
1-1/2 tablespoons freshly grated lemon zest
l large egg yolk
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup all-purpose flour

In a bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the brown sugar and the zest until the mixture is light and fluffy and beat in the yolk, the lemon juice, the vanilla, and the salt. Add the flour, sifted, and beat the mixture until it is just combined well. Drop teaspoons of the batter 2 inches apart onto well-buttered baking sheets and bake the cookies in batches in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 8 to 10 minutes, or until they are golden around the edges. Let the cookies cool on the sheet for 1 minute, or until they are just firm enough to be removed, and transfer them to racks to cool.

Cornmeal Cake with Black Cherry Compote 
Yellow cornmeal
1/2 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
2 cups fresh goat's milk or whole milk
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup yellow cornmeal
1/4 cup honey
5 tablespoons sugar
4 large eggs, separated
Black Cherry Compote

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9 x 5x 2 1/2-inch metal loaf pan. Dust with cornmeal; tap out excess. Scrape seeds from vanilla bean into heavy medium saucepan; add bean. Add milk, butter, lemon peel and salt. Bring to simmer, stirring until butter melts. Remove from heat. Gradually whisk in 1 cup cornmeal. Transfer to medium bowl. Mix in honey and 3 tablespoons sugar. Cool to just lukewarm, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes. Discard vanilla bean. Whisk in yolks.
Using electric mixer, beat egg whites in large bowl until foamy. Sprinkle remaining 2 tablespoons sugar over whites and beat until medium-soft peaks form. Gently fold whites into cornmeal mixture in 2 additions. Pour batter into prepared pan.
Bake cake until top cracks and tester inserted into center comes out with a few moist crumbs attached, about 45 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack (cake will fall in center). Turn out onto plate. Using sharp serrated knife, cut cake into 3/4-inch-thick slices. Place 1 slice on each plate. Top with Black Cherry Compote.

Peanut Butter Cookies with Chocolate Chunks 
1 1/2 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1/3 cup old-fashioned oats
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup old-fashioned chunky peanut butter (about 9 ounces)
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/4 cup honey
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
5 ounces semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped

Mix flour, oats, baking soda and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat peanut butter, brown sugar, butter, honey, egg and vanilla in large bowl until well blended. Stir dry ingredients into peanut butter mixture in 2 additions. Stir in chopped chocolate. Cover and refrigerate until dough is firm and no longer sticky, about 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 heavy large baking sheets. With hands, roll 1 heaping tablespoonful of dough for each cookie into 1 3/4-inch-diameter ball. Arrange cookies on prepared baking sheets, spacing 2 1/2 inches apart. Bake cookies until puffed, beginning to brown on top and still very soft to touch, about 12 minutes. Cool cookies on baking sheets 5 minutes. Using metal spatula, transfer cookies to rack and cool completely. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Individual Chocolate Mousse Cheesecakes 
14 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped.
1 1/4 cups chilled whipping cream
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 cup Grand Marnier or other orange liqueur
6 large eggs
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour twelve 3/4-cup custard cups. Stir chocolate in bowl set over simmering water until smooth. Remove from over water. Cool to lukewarm, about 10 minutes.
Using electric mixer, beat cream and cinnamon in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Add liqueur; beat until still peaks form. Beat eggs and brown sugar in large bowl until very light, about 5 minutes. Gradually beat chocolate into egg mixture, then fold in cream mixture.
Divide batter among prepared cups. Set cups in large roasting pan. Add enough hot water to pan to come halfway up sides of cups. Bake until tops of cakes look dry and tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs attached, about 18 minutes. Transfer cups to racks; cool cakes completely.
Cut around cakes to loosen. Turn cakes out onto plates.

Currant and Molasses Spice Cookies 
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
1/3 cup unsulfured molasses
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 cup dried currants, soaked in boiling water to cover for 5 minutes, drained, and patted dry

In a bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy and beat in the molasses. Into the bowl sift together the flour, the baking soda, the salt, and the spices, beat the dough until it is combined well, and stir in the currants. Halve the dough and on a sheet of wax paper form each half into an 8-inch log, using the wax paper as a guide. Chill the logs, wrapped in the wax paper, for at least 4 hours or overnight.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Cut the logs into 1/4-inch-thick slices with a sharp knife and arrange the slices 2 inches apart on lightly buttered baking sheets. Bake the cookies in batches in the middle of the oven for 10 to 12 minutes, or until they are pale golden. Transfer the cookies to racks and let them cool.

Twice-Baked Almond Cookies 
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
Pinch of salt
1 1/4 cups sugar
3 large eggs
2 tablespoons honey
1 tablespoon orange flower water*
2 1/4 cups whole almonds (about 12 ounces)
*Orange flower water is a flavoring extract sold at liquor stores and in the liquor or specialty foods section of some supermarkets.

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 425 degrees F. Butter and flour 13 x 9 x 2-inch metal baking pan. Sift flour and salt into medium bowl. Whisk sugar, eggs, honey and orange flower water in large bowl to blend well. Gradually add flour mixture, stirring just until blended. Stir in almonds. Spoon batter into prepared pan. Using back of spoon, spread batter evenly to smooth top.
Bake until dough puffs and is pale golden, about 20 minutes. Cool 5 minutes. Turn pastry out onto rack; cool completely. Maintain oven temperature. Cut pastry crosswise into 1/2-inch-wide strips. Cut each strip diagonally into 3 pieces. Arrange cookies, cut side down, on 2 baking sheets. Bake until cookies are golden, about 14 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks; cool. (Can be prepared 5 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Hazelnut Chocolate Stripes 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 large egg
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup toasted and skinned hazelnuts (procedure follows), ground coarse
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder

In a bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the sugars until mixture is light and fluffy and beat in the egg and the vanilla. Into the bowl sift together 2 cups of the flour, the baking powder, and the salt, beat the dough until it is combined well, and transfer half the dough to another bowl. Into half the dough beat in the hazelnuts and the remaining 1/4 cup flour. Beat the cocoa powder into the remaining dough. On a sheet of wax paper form each dough into a 10- by 1 1/2-inch squared-off log, using the wax paper as a guide, and chill the log, wrapped in the wax paper, for 1 hour, or until they are firm. Cut each log carefully into 4 equal lengthwise slices with a knife and reassemble the logs, alternating 2 slices from each dough to form striped patterns. Chill the logs, wrapped in the wax paper, for at least 4 hours or overnight.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Cut the logs into 3/8-inch-thick slices with a sharp knife and arrange the slices 2 inches apart on lightly buttered baking sheets. Bake the cookies in batches in the middle of the oven for 10 to 12 minutes, or until they are pale golden. Transfer the cookies to racks and let them cool completely.
Toast the hazelnuts in one layer in a baking pan in a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 10 to 15 minutes, or until they are colored lightly and the skins blister. Wrap the nuts in a kitchen towel and let them steam for 1 minute. Rub the nuts in the towel to remove as much of the skins as possible and let them cool.

Pecan Crescent Cookies 
2 cups all purpose flour, sifted
1 cup pecans, toasted
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup powdered sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Additional powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Combine 1 cup all purpose flour, toasted pecans and salt in processor. Using on/off turns, finely chop pecans. Using electric mixer, beat butter, 3/4 cup powdered sugar and vanilla extract in large bowl until well blended. Add pecan mixture and remaining 1 cup flour and mix thoroughly. Divide dough in half. Wrap each half in plastic and refrigerate overnight.
Working with 1 tablespoon dough at a time, shape dough into 3-inch-long logs. Pinch ends of logs to taper and turn in slightly, forming crescents. Place cookies on ungreased baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart (cookies will not spread).
Bake cookies until light brown around edges and firm to touch, about 18 minutes. Cool cookies 10 minutes on baking sheets. Roll cookies in additional powdered sugar. Cool completely on racks. (Cookies can be prepared 2 weeks ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Panque de Almendra 
4 large eggs, separated
1/2 cup granulated sugar
2/3 cup finely ground blanched almonds
2/3 cup wheat starch* or cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup whole milk
*This is the starch that remains when the gluten has been extracted from the wheat flour. It have successfully substituted cornstarch. But wheat starch, available in Chinese groceries where it is sometimes misleadingly labeled  inchwheat flour, inch gives a more authentic texture.

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Butter and flour an 8 x 5-inch loaf pan or an 8-inch Bundt cake pan. In a large bowl, beat the egg yolks and sugar together until the mixture is thick and lemon-colored and falls from the beaters in a ribbon. Stir in the ground almonds.
Sift the starch and salt together. Beat into the almond mixture alternately with the milk, in three additions.
In a deep bowl, beat the egg whites to stiff peaks; fold into the almond batter. Spoon the batter into the prepared pan. Bake for 25 to 30 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean.

Chocolate Toffee Cookies 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 large egg
1 tablespoon dark rum
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup all purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups crushed chocolate-covered English toffee (such as Heath bar; about 7 ounces)
1/2 cup chopped almonds

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Beat butter and sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Add egg, rum and vanilla and beat until well blended. Sift flour, cocoa, baking soda and salt into small bowl. Stir dry ingredients into butter mixture. Mix in toffee and chopped almonds.
Drop batter by heaping tablespoonfuls onto heavy large ungreased baking sheet, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake until cookies puff slightly and crack on top but are still soft to touch, about 11 minutes. Let cookies cool on sheet 1 minute. Transfer cookies to rack and cool completely (cookies will become crisp). Repeat shaping and baking with remaining batter. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Beaumes-de-Venise Cake with Grapes 
Olive oil
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 tablespoons extra-virgin olive oil
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon grated orange peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup Beaumes-de-Venise or other Muscat wine
1 1/2 cups red seedless grapes

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Brush 10-inch-diameter springform pan with olive oil. Line bottom of pan with parchment; brush parchment with olive oil.
Sift flour and next 3 ingredients into bowl. Whisk 3/4 cup sugar, 6 tablespoons butter and 3 tablespoons oil in large bowl until smooth. Whisk in eggs, both peels and vanilla. Add flour mixture alternately with wine in 3 additions each, whisking just until smooth after each addition. Transfer batter to prepared pan; smooth top. Sprinkle grapes over batter.
Bake cake until top is set, about 20 minutes. Dot top of cake with 2 tablespoons butter; sprinkle 2 tablespoons sugar over. Bake until golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes longer. Cool in pan on rack 20 minutes. Release pan sides. Serve slightly warm or at room temperature.

Honey and Spice Loaf Cake 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
2/3 cup honey
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup vegetable oil
2 large eggs
1/2 cup boiling water
1 cup raisins

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour 9x5x3-inch metal loaf pan. Whisk first 6 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat honey, sugar, oil and eggs in large bowl until blended, about 3 minutes. Beat in dry ingredients in 2 additions. Beat in 1/2 cup boiling water. Stir in raisins. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until cake is brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Cool cake in pan 10 minutes. Turn out onto rack; cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap cake and store at room temperature.)

Gingerbread Cupcakes with Lemon Cream Cheese Frosting 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon allspice
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) plus 2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup unsulfured molasses
1 large egg, beaten lightly
1 teaspoon baking soda
8 ounce cream cheese, softened
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon freshly grated lemon zest
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon thinly sliced crystallized ginger

Into a bowl sift together the flour, the ground ginger, the cinnamon, the cloves, the allspice, and the salt. In another bowl cream 1/2 stick of the butter, add the granulated sugar, and beat the mixture until it is fluffy. Beat in the molasses and the egg, beating until the mixture is smooth. In a measuring cup combine the baking soda with 1/2 cup boiling water and stir the mixture to dissolve the baking soda. Stir the mixture into the molasses mixture (the mixture will appear curdled) and stir the molasses mixture into the flour mixture, stirring to combine the ingredients well. Line twelve 1/2-cup muffin tins with paper liners and spoon the batter into the liners, filling them halfway. Bake the cupcakes in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 20 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. (The cupcakes will be flat or slightly indented on top.) Transfer the cupcakes to a rack and let them cool.
In a bowl cream together the cream cheese, and the remaining 2 tablespoons butter, add the confectioners' sugar and the vanilla, and beat the mixture until it is fluffy and smooth. Beat in the zest and the lemon juice and chill the frosting for 30 minutes. Spread the frosting on the cupcakes and top each cupcake with some of the crystallized ginger.

Norwegian Christmas Cookies 
2 large eggs
1 cup sugar
4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3 sticks salted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar cubes, coarsely crushed, or pearl sugar

Beat together 1 egg and sugar with an electric mixer until thick and pale. Sift in flour and baking powder and add butter. Beat on low speed until mixture forms a dough. Chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, at least 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Lightly beat remaining egg. Roll level teaspoons of dough into balls and arrange 1 inch apart on ungreased baking sheets. Press thumb into center of each ball to flatten, leaving a depression, and brush lightly with egg. Sprinkle crushed sugar in centers and bake in batches in middle of oven until golden, 12 to 18 minutes. Transfer to racks to cool completely.

Christmas Cranberry, Pear and Walnut Torte with Cream Cheese-Orange Frosting 
2 3/4 cups chopped toasted walnuts
1 cup all purpose flour
1/2 cup plain dry breadcrumbs
2 teaspoons grated orange peel
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon salt
6 large eggs
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, melted, lukewarm
1/2 cup fresh or frozen cranberries
Cream Cheese-Orange Frosting
Poached Pears with Cranberry Puree

Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 375 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans. Line bottom of pans with waxed paper. Butter and flour waxed paper; tap out excess flour.
Blend 2 cups walnuts and flour in processor until walnuts are finely ground. Add breadcrumbs, orange peel, spices and salt. Using on/off turns, process just until blended.
Using electric mixer, beat eggs in large bowl until frothy. Gradually beat in 1 cup sugar and brown sugar. Continue beating until mixture is thick and triples in volume, about 6 minutes.
Fold flour mixture and melted lukewarm butter alternately into egg mixture, beginning and ending with flour mixture (do not overmix or batter will deflate). Divide batter between prepared cake pans; smooth tops. Bake cakes until golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Transfer pans to racks; cool 5 minutes. Invert cakes onto racks; cool completely. Remove waxed paper.
Toss cranberries with remaining 1/2 cup sugar in small bowl to coat. Transfer berries to plate. Cover and freeze. (Can be prepared ahead. Wrap each cake layer separately in plastic. Freeze cake layers and sugarcoated cranberries up to 1 week.)
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread with 1 cup frosting. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of torte. Press remaining 3/4 cup walnuts onto torte sides. Arrange poached pears in concentric circles atop torte. (Torte can be frosted 1 day ahead. Cover torte; chill. Let torte stand 30 minutes at room temperature before serving.)
Rewarm cranberry puree in small saucepan over medium heat. Brush some puree over pears. Transfer remaining puree to bowl.
Garnish torte with frozen sugarcoated cranberries. Serve torte with puree.

Blueberry Cheesecake Bars 
16 ounces cream cheese, softened
2 large eggs
3/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
3/4 cup blueberry or other fruit preserves
hot shortbread base

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
In a bowl whisk cream cheese until smooth and whisk in eggs, sugar, and vanilla. Evenly spread preserves over hot shortbread and pour cream-cheese mixture over it. Bake in middle of oven until slightly puffed, about 30 minutes. Cool completely in pan and cut into 24 bars. Bar cookies keep, covered and chilled, 3 days.

Cheesecake Fruit Tart 
1 All Ready Pie Crust (half of 15-ounce package), room temperature
1 teaspoon all purpose flour
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
3 tablespoons sugar
3 tablespoons amaretto liqueur
1 teaspoon almond extract
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2-pint basket blueberries
2 to 3 fresh nectarines, pitted, thinly sliced into wedges
1 1/2-pint basket fresh raspberries
1/4 cup apricot preserves

Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Unfold crust on work surface. Press out fold lines; if crust cracks, press together to seal. Rub crust with flour. Arrange crust, floured side down, in 9-inch-diameter tart pan with removable bottom. Fold excess pastry in, forming double-thick sides. Bake until brown, about 15 minutes (crust may crack in places). Cool.
Meanwhile, using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, sugar, 2 tablespoons amaretto, and almond and vanilla extracts in large bowl until blended and smooth. Spread cheese mixture in prepared crust. Refrigerate until firm, about 45 minutes. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.)
Mound blueberries in center of tart. Arrange nectarine slices in ring around berries. Place raspberries at outside edge. Stir apricot preserves in small saucepan over low heat until melted. Mix in remaining 1 tablespoon amaretto. Brush glaze over fruit topping. Refrigerate up to 2 hours.

Chocolate Cake with Mascarpone and Praline 
1/2 cup whole blanched almonds
1/2 cup hazelnuts
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup water
3 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened)
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch process)
5 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/3 cup vegetable oil
2/3 cup water
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 large egg
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/3 cup well-shaken buttermilk
8 ounces mascarpone cheese (about 1 cup) at room temperature
1 1/2 tablespoons sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
In a baking pan toast nuts in one layer in middle of oven 10 minutes, or until almonds are lightly colored and hazelnut skins are blistered. Wrap nuts in a kitchen towel and let steam 1 minute. Rub nuts in towel to remove any loose hazelnut skins (do not worry about skins that do not come off) and cool completely.
Line a baking sheet with foil. In a small heavy saucepan bring sugar and water to a boil, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Boil syrup, without stirring, washing down any sugar crystals that cling to side of pan with a pastry brush dipped in cold water, until it begins to turn golden. Swirl pan until syrup is deep golden and remove from heat. Stir in nuts and pour praline onto baking sheet, spreading evenly. Cool praline completely and break into pieces. Transfer praline to a sealable plastic bag and with a rolling pin coarsely crush.
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Generously butter a 9-inch round cake pan (at least 2 inches deep) and line bottom with wax or parchment paper. Butter paper and dust pan with flour, knocking out excess.
Finely chop chocolate. In a small saucepan combine cocoa powder, butter, oil, and water. Bring mixture to a boil, stirring until smooth, and remove pan from heat. Add chocolate and sugar, whisking until smooth, and transfer to a bowl. Cool chocolate mixture completely and whisk in egg. Sift flour and baking powder over chocolate mixture and whisk until just combined. Whisk in buttermilk and pour batter into cake pan, spreading evenly. Bake cake in middle of oven 45 to 50 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean, and cool in pan on a rack 5 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge of pan and invert cake onto rack. Discard paper. Cool cake completely and transfer to a plate. In a bowl stir together mascarpone and sugar. Spread mixture over top of cake and generously sprinkle with praline.

Old-Fashioned Sugar Cookies 
1/2 cup lard or vegetable shortening, melted and cooled
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 cup sugar plus additional for coating the cookies
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt

In a large bowl stir together the lard or shortening, the butter, 1 cup of the sugar, the egg, and the vanilla. Into the bowl sift together the flour, the baking soda, and the salt and stir the mixture until it forms a dough. Chill the dough, covered, for at least 2 hours or overnight.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Roll rounded tablespoons of the dough into balls, roll the balls in the additional sugar, coating them completely, and arrange them 3 inches apart on lightly greased baking sheets. Flatten the balls with the bottom of a glass dipped in the sugar (the edges will crack slightly) and bake the cookies in batches in the middle of the oven for 8 to 12 minutes, or until they are pale golden. Transfer the cookies to racks and let them cool. The cookies keep in an airtight container for 1 week.

Chocolate Mint Layer Cake 
1 3/4 cups cake flour
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
2 cups sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs
4 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups buttermilk
Mint Whipped Cream
Chocolate curls
Fresh mint sprigs

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper.
Sift first 5 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in vanilla. Add dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk in 3 additions each, beating until well blended. Divide batter equally among prepared pans (generous 2 cups for each); smooth top of batter.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out with some moist crumbs still attached, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 15 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks; peel off paper. Cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; store at room temperature.)
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 1 1/4 cups Mint Whipped Cream over. Top with second cake layer. Spread 1 1/4 cups Mint Whipped Cream over. Top with third cake layer. Spread remaining Mint Whipped Cream over top and sides of cake. Refrigerate at least 2 hours and up to 6 hours. Pile chocolate curls atop center of cake.
Garnish with mint sprigs.

Strawberry Basket Cake 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 cup sour cream
1/4 cup orange juice
1 1/2 teaspoons grated orange peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 large eggs
2 12-ounce baskets strawberries
1/3 cup strawberry preserves
Whipped Crème Fraîche

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper. Sift first 4 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and 1 cup sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in sour cream, orange juice, orange peel and vanilla. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add dry ingredients and beat until well blended. Divide batter between prepared pans; smooth tops.
Bake cakes until light golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 28 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on rack 30 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely.
Meanwhile, hull and slice 1 basket strawberries. Place in medium bowl. Add preserves and 2 tablespoons sugar; toss to blend. Let stand at room temperature until juices form, about 2 hours.
Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on platter. Top with sliced berry mixture in even layer. Spread 1 3/4 cups Whipped Crème Fraîche over berry mixture. Top with second cake layer, flat side down, pressing slightly. To make basket weave, spread 1 1/4 cups Whipped Crème Fraîche over top and sides of cake; then follow directions in the box at right. Or to frost simply, spread all of Whipped Crème Fraîche over top and sides of cake. (Can be made 8 hours ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate.) Mound remaining whole berries in center of cake.
1. Using a ruler to measure and a skewer to mark, draw vertical lines at 3/4-inch intervals on sides of frosted cake. Fit a pastry bag with a plain round tip; fill with 1 cup frosting. Pipe a vertical cord of frosting from top to bottom of cake over one drawn line.
2. Using another pastry bag fitted with a basket-weave tip and filled with 2 cups frosting, pipe a short horizontal ribbon across cord, extending ribbon from the drawn line to the left of the cord to the drawn line on the right. Repeat, piping horizontal ribbons down the length of the cord, leaving a space between ribbons that is the same width as the ribbons.
3. Pipe another vertical cord over the next drawn line. The cord should touch the end of the adjacent ribbons.
4. Pipe short horizontal ribbons over second cord to fill the spaces between ribbons on the first cord. (Start each ribbon at the edge of—but don’t cover—the first vertical cord. Pipe ribbon over second cord, ending at next drawn vertical line.) Repeat, alternating between piping ribbons and cords to finish basket weave.
5. Fit another pastry bag with star tip; fill with 1 cup frosting. Pipe frosting around top edge of cake.

Pineapple Rum Trifle Cake 
parchment paper
1/4 cup (1 1/2 ounces) shelled natural pistachios or blanched almonds
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
5 large eggs
2/3 cup sugar
two 20-ounce cans unsweetened crushed pineapple
rum sabayon
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream
2 teaspoons sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Oil bottom and sides of a 15 1/2 x 10 1/2 x 1-inch jelly-roll pan and line bottom and sides with parchment paper.
In a food processor finely grind nuts with flour and salt. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together eggs and sugar until thick and pale and mixture forms a ribbon when beaters are lifted (about 10 minutes with a standing mixer or about 15 with a hand-held mixer). Fold flour mixture into egg mixture gently but thoroughly. Spread batter evenly in jelly-roll pan and bake in middle of oven until golden and springs back when lightly touched, 10 to 15 minutes. Cool cake layer in pan on a rack. Cake layer may be made 3 days ahead and kept wrapped well in plastic wrap at cool room temperature.
In a food processor pulse undrained pineapple 3 seconds. Drain pineapple in a sieve set over a bowl (you will have about 2 cups) and reserve juice for another use.
Invert cake layer onto a work surface and peel off parchment. With a long serrated knife trim layer to form a 14 x 7-inch rectangle, reserving trimmings. Halve rectangle crosswise to form two 7-inch squares and carefully halve squares horizontally (for a total of four 7-inch squares). Horizontally halve reserved trimmings.
Put 1 square on a cake plate. With a spatula spread 1/2 cup pineapple evenly over square. Top pineapple with 1/2 cup sabayon, spreading evenly. Make more layers in same manner with remaining 3 squares, pineapple, and sabayon, ending with sabayon. Piece together enough reserved trimmings to form a fifth square over sabayon. Chill cake, covered, at least 1 hour and up to 2 days.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat cream with sugar until it just holds soft peaks and with a spatula spread whipped cream over top and sides of cake. Cake may be fully assembled 1 day ahead and chilled in a cake keeper or covered with an inverted bowl. Bring cake to room temperature before serving (about 30 minutes).

No-Fail Chocolate Chippers 
2 cups old-fashioned rolled oats
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) butter, room temperature
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup chopped walnuts
1 11.5-ounce package (about 2 cups) milk chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Finely grind oats in processor. Add flour, baking soda and salt and blend 5 seconds.
Beat butter and both sugars in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs and vanilla. Mix in dry ingredients. Mix in walnuts and chocolate chips.
For each cookie, form 2 rounded tablespoons dough into ball and place on ungreased baking sheets; flatten slightly. Bake until edges are golden brown, about 12 minutes. Cool on sheets 5 minutes. Transfer to racks; cool completely.

Pecan Chocolate Cookies Bartell 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup packed dark brown sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (6 ounces) semisweet chocolate chips
1/2 cup chopped pecans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Have ready 3 ungreased baking sheets.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat butter with brown sugar until light and fluffy and beat in egg and vanilla. Into mixture sift flour, baking powder, and salt and beat dough until just combined. Stir in chocolate chips and pecans.
Roll heaping tablespoons of dough into balls and arrange about 2 inches apart on baking sheets. With fork flatten balls into 2-inch rounds and bake in batches in middle of oven 12 to 15 minutes, or until pale golden. Transfer cookies to rack to cool.

Almond Shortbread Cookies 
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 8 pieces
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
Pinch of salt
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1/4 cup sliced almonds (about 1 ounce)

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Place 9-inch-diameter metal pie pan in freezer to chill. Combine butter, brown sugar, vanilla and salt in processor. Blend until smooth, about 20 seconds. Add flour and cornstarch. Using on/off turns, process until dough clumps together. Press dough evenly onto bottom of chilled pie pan. Sprinkle almonds over; press almonds lightly into dough to adhere. Freeze until chilled, about 5 minutes.
Bake shortbread until edges are golden brown, about 22 minutes. Transfer pan to rack. Cut warm shortbread into 8 wedges; cool completely in pan. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover; store at room temperature.)

Chocolate Cheesecake 
12 ounces semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
1/3 cup water
1 tablespoon orange-flavored liqueur, such as Grand Marnier
4 large eggs
1 3/4 cups sugar
2 pounds cream cheese, at room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract

Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter an 8-inch round springform pan that is at least 2 inches deep.
In a heavy pot, melt the chocolate with the water and liqueur. When melted, remove from the heat and let stand until cool.
In a large mixing bowl, using a handheld elecric mixer at medium speed, beat the eggs with the sugar until well combined, 3 to 5 minutes. Gradually beat in the cream cheese, 1/4 pound at a time, until the mixture is very smooth, 5 minutes. Beat in the cooled chocolate and the vanilla. Spread the batter evenly in the prepared pan.
Bake in the preheated oven until the top edges of the cheesecake are puffed and golden brown, about 1 hour. Let the cake cool in the pan for 30 minutes. Run a sharp knife around the inside of the pan to release the cheesecake from the sides (if they haven't already pulled away during the cooling process). Remove the sides of the springform, cover the cake with plastic wrap, and refrigerate for 30 minutes before serving. Bring to room temperature before serving, unless it is a very hot day, in which case, take it out of the fridge at the last minute and enjoy it cold.

Halloween Spice Cake 
2 cups molasses
1 cup unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/4 cup strong brewed coffee
4-3/4 cups cake flour
2 teaspoon sea salt
1 teaspoon ground allspice
1 teaspoon ground cloves
4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
4 teaspoons ground ginger
2 teaspoons ground mace
2 teaspoons freshly grated nutmeg
1-1/2 teaspoons baking soda
4 tart apples such as Cox Orange Pippins, Fuji, or Winesaps
2 cups packed dark brown sugar
2 large eggs
2 cups sour cream
3/4 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips or Lindt chocolate cut into small pieces

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly oil a 13x9x2-inch baking pan.
2. Combine the molasses, butter, and coffee in a medium-size saucepan, and bring to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally. As soon as it boils, remove from the heat. Transfer the mixture to a large bowl, or the bowl of an electric mixer, and let cool to lukewarm.
3. Sift the flour, salt, spices, and baking soda together onto a large piece of waxed paper.
4. Core, peel, and halve the apples, then slice them into 1/4-inch thick slices. Line the prepared pan with the apples slices, slightly overlapping them. Sprinkle them with the brown sugar.
5. Whisk the eggs into the molasses mixture. Add the dry ingredients and mix quickly but thoroughly. Then add the sour cream, mixing just until it is incorporated. Fold in the chocolate chips, and then pour the cake batter over the apple slices.
6. Bake in the center of the oven until the cake is mounded in the center and your finger leaves a slight indentation when you touch it, 50-55 minutes. Remove the pan from the oven and transfer it to a wire rack to cool to lukewarm before serving. You may also serve it at room temperature, but it is best lukewarm.
7. To serve, cut the cake in pieces and turn them out of the pan upside down, so the apple slices are on top, or turn the entire cake out upside down onto a large serving platter and serve.

Butterfinger-Chunk Cookies 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 1/2 cups Butterfinger BB's candies (about five 1.7-ounce packages)

Using electric mixer, beat butter and both sugars in large bowl until well blended. Add egg and vanilla and beat until fluffy. Beat in flour, salt and baking soda. Stir in Butterfinger BB's (dough will be moist). Chill cookie dough at least 30 minutes and up to 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line baking sheets with parchment paper. Using 1 rounded tablespoon dough for each cookie, drop cookie dough in mounds onto prepared baking sheets, spacing 3 inches apart (about 8 cookies per sheet; cookies will spread). Bake cookies until golden brown, about 12 minutes. Transfer parchment with cookies to rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 4 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Marzipan Cheesecake 
1/2 cup whole blanched almonds
eight 5- by 2 1/2-inch graham crackers
3 tablespoons sugar
1/3 cup (5 1/3 tablespoons) unsalted butter
1/3 cup packed pure almond paste
3/4 cup sugar
three 8-ounce packages cream cheese, softened
1 teaspoon vanilla
5 large eggs
5 ounces semisweet chocolate
1/2 cup heavy cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and butter a 9 1/2-inch springform pan.
In a shallow baking pan toast almonds in middle of oven until golden, about 10 minutes. Remove almonds from oven but leave oven on. Cool almonds completely. In a food processor pulse nuts until finely chopped and transfer to a bowl. Break graham crackers into food processor and finely grind. Stir 1 cup cracker crumbs and sugar into almonds. Melt butter and add to crumb mixture, stirring with a fork until combined well. Press crumb mixture evenly onto bottom and 1 inch up side of springform pan.
In a food processor grind together almond paste and sugar until combined well. Add cream cheese and vanilla and blend well. Add eggs 1 at a time, pulsing until just combined after each addition.
Pour filling into crust and bake in middle of oven 50 minutes. Turn off oven and let cheesecake stand in oven 10 minutes. (Cake will not be set in center but will set as it cools. Don't worry if cheesecake cracks; chocolate topping will cover it.) Cool cheesecake in pan on a rack 1 hour.
Run a thin knife around edge of pan to loosen cheesecake but do not remove side of pan. Chill cake, uncovered, at least 4 hours and up to 1 day.
Finely chop chocolate. In a small saucepan bring cream just to a simmer and remove pan from heat. Add chocolate and stir until smooth.
Carefully pour topping onto cake and spread it up to but not over edge. Chill cake, covered, until chocolate is set, at least 2 hours, and up to 1 day.
Just before serving, remove side of pan.

Low-Fat Almond-Cinnamon Biscotti 
3 large eggs
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 teaspoon almond extract
3 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup chopped toasted almonds
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease 18x12x1-inch baking sheet. Combine first 4 ingredients in bowl of heavy-duty electric mixer fitted with paddle attachment. Beat until well blended. Mix flour, almonds, cinnamon, baking soda and salt in medium bowl. Gradually add to egg mixture, beating until blended (dough will be soft).
Turn dough out onto floured surface and gather together. Roll dough between palms and work surface into 16-inch-long log. Transfer to prepared sheet. Flatten log to 1-inch thickness. Bake until light brown and cracked on top, about 30 minutes. Transfer sheet to rack; cool log 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Transfer warm log to work surface. Using serrated knife, cut log on sharp diagonal into 1/4- to 1/3-inch-thick slices. Arrange on baking sheets. Bake 10 minutes per side. Transfer to racks and cool (biscotti will harden while cooling). (Can be made ahead. Store airtight up to 1 week.)

Strawberry Cheesecake with Gingersnap Crust 
3 cups gingersnap cookie crumbs
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 large eggs
2 cups fresh strawberries, hulled, halved

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Blend cookie crumbs, sugar and butter in processor until well mixed. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and halfway up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 1/2-inch-high sides. Bake crust until set, about 10 minutes. Transfer to rack.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in vanilla. Add eggs and beat just until blended.
Pour filling into crust-lined pan. Bake until sides of cheesecake are slightly puffed and begin to crack, and center moves slightly when pan is shaken gently, about 1 hour. Transfer cake to rack. Cool completely. Cover; chill overnight.
Release pan sides from cheesecake. Arrange strawberries around outer edge of cheesecake. Cut into wedges.

Christmas Lane Cake 
3 1/4 cups sifted all purpose flour
3 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup whole milk
8 large egg whites
3/4 cup bourbon
3/4 cup dried tart cherries
3/4 cup finely chopped dried apricots
8 large egg yolks
1 1/3 cups sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup pecans, toasted, chopped
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut
4 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 1/2 (3-ounce) packages cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup powdered sugar
3 tablespoons bourbon
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
Pecan halves (optional)
Dried apricot halves

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter and flour four 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line pans with waxed paper. Sift first 4 ingredients into medium bowl. Beat butter and 1 1/2 cups sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in vanilla. Beat in flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with milk in 2 additions. Using clean dry beaters, beat whites in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1/2 cup sugar, beating until whites are stiff but not dry. Fold 1/3 of whites into butter mixture. Fold in remaining whites in 2 additions. Divide batter among pans (batter will be about 1/2 inch deep).
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks; peel off paper. Cool completely.
Mix bourbon, cherries and apricots in small bowl. Cover; let stand at room temperature until most of bourbon is absorbed and fruit softens, at least 3 hours and up to 1 day.
Using electric mixer, beat yolks and sugar in medium bowl until mixture falls in heavy ribbon when beaters are lifted, about 5 minutes. Beat in butter. Transfer yolk mixture to heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium-low heat until thermometer registers 160 degrees F and mixture is thick, about 15 minutes. Remove from heat; mix in nuts, coconut and fruit mixture. Chill until cold, about 4 hours. Mix in chocolate. (Cake layers and filling can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap cakes; store at room temperature. Cover filling; chill.)
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread with 1/3 of filling. Repeat layering of cake and filling 2 more times. Top with final cake layer, pressing slightly.
Chill cake.
Beat cream cheese and 1/4 cup powdered sugar in medium bowl until smooth. Beat in bourbon and vanilla. Beat cream and 1/2 cup powdered sugar in large bowl until soft peaks form. Add cream cheese mixture to whipped cream; beat until stiff enough to spread.
Spread frosting over top and sides of cake. If desired, place pecans around edge of cake. Using rolling pin, flatten apricot halves between sheets of plastic wrap. Cut out leaf shapes. Arrange on cake. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome; chill.)

Cocoa Meringue Kisses 
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
Pinch of salt
3 large egg whites
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 tablespoon powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Line 2 heavy large baking sheets with foil or parchment paper. Sift 1/4 cup sugar, cocoa and salt into small bowl. Beat egg whites and cream of tartar in large bowl until soft peaks begin to form. Add remaining 1/4 cup sugar 1/2 tablespoon at a time and beat until medium-firm peaks form. Add cocoa mixture 1 tablespoon at a time and beat until meringue is stiff and glossy.
Drop meringue onto prepared baking sheets by rounded teaspoonfuls, spacing 1 inch apart. For chewy soft cookies, bake meringues 25 minutes. For drier, crisper cookies, bake meringues 40 minutes. Cool cookies on baking sheets. Sift powdered sugar over cookies.

Gingerbread Roulade with Caramel and Glaceed Fruits 
6 large eggs, separated
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1 tablespoon mild-flavored (light) molasses
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 1/2 teaspoons ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon salt
teaspoon cream of tartar
Powdered sugar
1/4 cup brandy
3/4 cup chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup chilled sour cream
1/4 cup powdered sugar
1 tablespoon brandy
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup whipping cream
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 cups powdered sugar
3/4 teaspoon ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 cup sugar
3 tablespoons water
1/2 tablespoon light corn syrup
Glac ed Fruits

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 15 1/2x10 1/2x1-inch baking sheet. Line with waxed paper; butter and flour paper.
Using electric mixer, beat yolks and 3/4 cup sugar in large bowl until mixture falls in heavy ribbon when beaters are lifted, about 5 minutes. Beat in melted butter, molasses and vanilla. Sift flour, baking powder, spices and salt over yolk mixture; fold in gently. Using clean dry beaters, beat whites and cream of tartar in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 2 tablespoons sugar, beating until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into yolk mixture in 3 additions. Spread batter evenly in prepared sheet.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Cut around baking sheet sides to loosen cake. Lay kitchen towel on work surface; dust with powdered sugar. Turn cake out onto towel; peel off paper. Brush cake with brandy. Starting at 1 long side, roll up warm cake together with towel jelly-roll style. Cool cake in towel.
Beat all ingredients in medium bowl until stiff peaks form. Unroll cake. Spread with filling. Roll up cake only (not towel). Place seam side down on long platter and refrigerate.
Stir brown sugar and cream in heavy small saucepan over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves and mixture simmers. Place in freezer until cold, about 15 minutes. Beat butter, powdered sugar and spices in medium bowl until fluffy. Beat in cold brown sugar mixture. Spread frosting all over cake. Chill until set, at least 2 hours. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover; chill.)
Stir sugar, water and corn syrup in heavy small saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves, occasionally brushing pan sides with wet pastry brush. Increase heat and boil without stirring until syrup is deep amber color, swirling pan occasionally, about 5 minutes. Using teaspoon and working quickly, drizzle caramel over cake. (Can be prepared 6 hours ahead; chill.)
Serve cake with fruits, if desired.

Bittersweet Chocolate and Almond Cake 
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
3/4 cup slivered almonds, toasted
3 tablespoons cake flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
5 large eggs
1 1/3 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Stir chocolate and butter in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until smooth. Cool mixture to lukewarm.
Finely grind 1/2 cup almonds, flour and salt in processor. Using electric mixer, beat eggs, sugar and vanilla in large bowl until thick, about 2 minutes. Fold in almond mixture, then chocolate mixture. Pour batter into prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs attached, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack (center will fall). Press edges down with fork to level top. Cover; refrigerate at least 2 hours and up to 1 day.
Cut around cake; remove pan sides. Beat cream in large bowl to firm peaks. Mound cream atop cake; sprinkle with remaining 1/4 cup almonds.

Biddy's Flapjacks 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup firmly packed golden brown sugar
1/4 cup dark corn syrup
2 cups old-fashioned oats
1/2 cup chopped toasted hazelnuts (about 2 ounces)
1/4 cup shelled sunflower seeds

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 9-inch square baking pan with foil, leaving 2-inch overhang. Melt butter, sugar and syrup in heavy medium saucepan over medium-low heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Mix in oats, nuts and sunflower seeds. Transfer mixture to prepared pan. Press down firmly to form even layer. Bake until golden brown, about 25 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool. Using foil sides as aid, lift cookie out of pan. Carefully cut into squares. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Star Anise and Coriander Spice Cake 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons coriander seeds
5 points of star anise
1/2 cup unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup uncooked farina such as Cream of Wheat
1 large egg
2 large yolks
2/3 cup whole milk
Garnish: strawberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and butter and flour an 8- by 2-inch round cake pan.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. In an electric coffee/ spice grinder finely grind coriander seeds and star anise. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Add flour mixture, ground spices, and remaining ingredients and beat on low speed until combined. Increase speed to high and beat batter 3 minutes. Pour batter into pan and bake in middle of oven until cake pulls away slightly from side of pan, about 50 minutes.
Cool cake in pan on a rack 10 minutes. Invert cake onto rack and remove pan. Invert another rack onto cake and turn cake right side up. Cool cake completely.

Italian Fruitcakes with Frangelico Chocolate Sauce 
3 cups hazelnuts, toasted, husked, coarsely chopped
12 ounces diced Calimyrna figs
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
1/3 cup minced crystallized ginger
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
5 large eggs
2 cups (or more) Frangelico (hazelnut liqueur)
2 tablespoons grated orange peel
2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup cake flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
2/3 cup whipping cream
1/3 cup Frangelico
Whipped cream (optional)

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Butter and flour 12 miniature Bundt molds or 12 oversize muffin cups (each about 1-cup capacity). Toss nuts, figs, chocolate and ginger in medium bowl to blend.
Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until smooth and fluffy. Beat in eggs, 1/4 cup Frangelico and orange peel (mixture may look curdled). Sift both flours and salt over batter; mix in. Stir in nut and fruit mixture.
Divide batter among molds. Bake cakes until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 45 minutes (about 55 minutes if using muffin cups). Turn cakes out onto racks; brush with 1/4 cup liqueur. Cool cakes completely.
Cut out twelve 10-inch cheesecloth squares. Pour 1 1/2 cups liqueur into small bowl. Dip 1 square into liqueur; squeeze out some but not all liqueur. Wrap 1 cake in liqueur-soaked cheesecloth, then in foil. Repeat dipping and wrapping with remaining cakes, adding more liqueur if needed. Chill at least 1 week and up to 2 weeks. Bring cakes to room temperature before serving.
Stir chocolate, 2/3 cup cream and liqueur in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until chocolate melts and sauce is smooth.
Arrange 1 cake on each plate. Drizzle with sauce. Pipe or spoon whipped cream alongside, if desired, and serve.

Chocolate Chip Cookies with Oatmeal and Pecans 
1 cup (2 sticks) margarine
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups plus 2 tablespoons all purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 1/2 cups quick-cooking oats
2 cups semisweet chocolate chips (about 12 ounces)
1 cup chopped pecans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly grease 2 heavy large baking sheets. Beat margarine and both sugars in large bowl until fluffy and well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, the vanilla. Sift flour, baking soda and salt over margarine mixture and stir to blend. Mix in oats, the chocolate chips and pecans.
Working in batches, drop dough by rounded tablespoonfuls onto prepared sheets. Bake cookies until golden brown, about 14 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead. Store cookies airtight at room temperature.)

Margarita Chiffon Cake 
2 1/4 cups cake flour
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
6 large egg yolks
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1/3 cup fresh lime juice
1/3 cup triple sec
2 tablespoons tequila
2 teaspoons grated lime peel
8 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
2 cups powdered sugar
2 tablespoons fresh lime juice
2 tablespoons tequila
4 teaspoons triple sec
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lime peel
Strawberry Compote with Tequila and Lime

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Whisk flour, 3/4 cup sugar, baking powder and salt in large bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat yolks and next 5 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Add to dry ingredients; beat just until smooth.
Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites and cream of tartar in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1/2 cup sugar, beating until stiff but not dry. Fold 1/3 of whites into batter, then fold in remaining whites. Transfer batter to ungreased 10-inch-diameter angel food cake pan; smooth top.
Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Immediately invert center tube of pan onto narrow-necked bottle; cool cake completely in pan.
Run long knife around center tube and sides of pan to loosen cake. Using center tube as aid, lift cake out of pan; run knife between cake and pan bottom to loosen. Invert cake onto platter.
Stir first 5 ingredients in medium bowl until smooth. Spread over top of cake, allowing glaze to drip down sides. Let stand until glaze sets, about 2 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; let stand at room temperature.) Serve cake with compote.

Pineapple Upside-Down Cakenullwith Macadamia Nuts 
12 tablespoons (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup (packed) brown sugar
1/2 cup chopped macadamia nuts
1/4 cup dried tart cherries*
2 tablespoons minced peeled fresh ginger
1/2 medium pineapple, peeled, quartered lengthwise, cored, cut crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick pieces
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons finely grated orange peel
3 large eggs, separated
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2/3 cup buttermilk
Whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Melt 6 tablespoons butter in 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides set atop burner on medium-low heat. Stir in sugar, nuts, cherries and ginger. Cook until sugar mixture bubbles, stirring often, about 6 minutes. Cool slightly. Arrange pineapple pieces, overlapping slightly and in concentric circles, over sugar mixture. Set aside.
Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat 3/4 cup sugar and orange peel in large bowl until fragrant. Beat in 6 tablespoons butter until light. Beat in yolks 1 at a time. Beat in lemon juice and vanilla. Beat in flour mixture alternately with buttermilk.
Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Add 2 tablespoons sugar and beat until firm peaks form. Fold into batter. Spoon into pan atop pineapple.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Transfer to rack; cool 5 minutes. Invert onto platter. Serve with whipped cream.

Chocolate Mint Cookies 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (preferably Dutch-process)
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 teaspoon peppermint extract
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sugar
1 large egg
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped

Whisk flour, cocoa powder, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth. Beat in peppermint extract and vanilla extract. Beat in sugar in 3 additions. Add egg and beat until blended. Add dry ingredients and beat just until blended (dough will be sticky).
Divide dough between 2 sheets of plastic wrap. Using plastic wrap as aid, form dough on each into 2-inch-diameter log. Wrap with plastic and refrigerate dough until well chilled, at least 2 hours. (Dough can be prepared 1 day ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
Position 1 rack in center and 1 rack in top third of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Unwrap cookie dough logs; roll briefly on work surface to form smooth round logs. Cut logs crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick rounds. Place rounds on prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Bake cookies until tops and edges are dry to touch, about 15 minutes. Transfer baking sheets with cookies to racks; cool completely. Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted and smooth. Remove from over water. Cool melted chocolate until slightly thickened but still pourable, about 10 minutes. Dip fork into melted chocolate, then wave fork back and forth over cookies, drizzling melted chocolate thickly over cookies in zigzag pattern. Refrigerate cookies on baking sheets until chocolate is set, about 10 minutes. (Cookies can be made 1 week ahead. Refrigerate in airtight container between sheets of parchment paper or waxed paper.)

Chocolate Peanut Butter Torte 
1 prebaked pie shell
2 large eggs, at room temperature
4 large egg yolks, at room temperature
1/3 cup sugar
1 cup peanut butter
7 tablespoons unsalted butter
3 ounces bittersweet chocolate
1/4 cup lightly salted peanuts, coarsely chopped

Heat oven to 325 degrees F. In a mixing bowl, beat eggs, yolks, and sugar with electric mixer on medium-high speed until it ribbons, about 6 minutes. Meanwhile, in a microwavable bowl, melt peanut butter, butter, and chocolate on high 1 minute. Stir and repeat until mixture is smooth. Cool.
In three additions, fold egg mixture into chocolate mixture. Pour into a prepared pie shell. Sprinkle peanuts over top of pie. Bake 12 minutes. Surface will be soft and somewhat liquid in the center. Allow to cool for 30 minutes and serve. Filling will be slightly runny and ooze out of the pie wedge.

Mango Upside-Down Cake 
2 (1-lb) firm-ripe mangoes, peeled
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup granulated sugar
3 large eggs, 2 of them separated
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup mango nectar

Standing each mango upright, remove flesh from pit by cutting a thick lengthwise slice from each broad side. (Be careful: Peeled mango is slippery.) Put slices on a work surface and cut lengthwise into 3/8-inch-thick slices.
Melt butter in a small heavy saucepan over moderate heat, then stir in brown sugar. Simmer, stirring, until butter is incorporated, 1 to 2 minutes. Spread mixture in bottom of a buttered 9- by 2-inch round baking pan and arrange mango on top, overlapping slices.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt. Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until light and fluffy, about 6 minutes. Add whole egg and yolks 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla. Add half of flour mixture and mix at low speed until just combined. Mix in mango nectar, then add remaining flour mixture, mixing until just combined.
Beat egg whites in another bowl with cleaned beaters until they just hold stiff peaks, then fold into batter gently but thoroughly.
Gently spoon batter over mango topping and spread evenly. Bake in middle of oven until golden brown and a tester comes out clean, 55 to 60 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 10 minutes. Run a thin knife around inside edge of pan, then invert a plate over pan and invert cake onto plate. Cool completely on plate on rack.
Serve cake at room temperature.

Plum Hazelnut Torte 
1 1/2 pounds Italian prune plums
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup hazelnuts
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour a 9-inch springform pan.
Quarter and pit plums. Coarsely chop half of plums and in a bowl toss with 2 tablespoons sugar. In another bowl combine remaining plums with 2 tablespoons sugar. On a baking sheet in middle of oven lightly toast hazelnuts until fragrant and insides are golden, 10 to 15 minutes. Cool nuts and grind fine in a food processor.
In a bowl whisk together hazelnuts, flour, baking powder, salt, and allspice. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat butter and remaining 3/4 cup sugar until light and fluffy. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating after each addition, and beat in vanilla and flour mixture until batter is just combined.
Drain chopped plums in a sieve, pressing on fruit, and pat dry with paper towels. Stir plums into batter and spread evenly in pan.
Drain quartered plums in sieve, pressing on fruit, and arrange, skin sides up, over batter. Bake torte in middle of oven 1 hour and 20 minutes, or until golden brown and a tester comes out clean. Cool torte in pan on a rack 30 minutes. Remove side of pan and cool completely.

Country Pear Cake 
2 large eggs
1/3 cup olive oil (do not use extra-virgin)
1/4 cup whole milk
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
2/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
1 1/2 cups self-rising flour
4 Bartlett pears (1 3/4 pounds), peeled, quartered, cored, cut crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick slices (about 3 cups)
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Oil and flour 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom with parchment paper. Whisk eggs, oil, milk, and lemon peel in large bowl. Whisk in 2/3 cup sugar. Add flour; whisk until batter is smooth. Mix in pears. Transfer batter to pan. Sprinkle top with 1 tablespoon sugar. Bake until brown on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool in pan on rack. (Can be made 8 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature.)
Using sharp knife, cut around edge of cake to loosen. Turn cake out onto rack. Invert onto platter right-side up. Sift powdered sugar over top.

Mississippi Mud Cake with Bourbon-Espresso Glaze 
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup unsalted butter, cut into pieces
6 ounces unsweetened chocolate, finely chopped
1/2 cup brewed espresso or very strong coffee
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup bourbon
4 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces
6 tablespoons (packed) golden brown sugar
2 teaspoons instant espresso powder
6 tablespoons whipping cream
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar, sifted
2 tablespoons bourbon
Vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 12-cup Bundt pan. Mix flour, baking soda and salt in medium bowl. Combine butter, chocolate and brewed espresso in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over low heat until chocolate and butter melt (mixture may look curdled). Remove from heat. Add sugar and bourbon. Whisk until sugar dissolves and mixture is smooth. Using electric mixer, beat eggs and vanilla in large bowl until blended. Gradually beat in chocolate mixture. Add flour mixture and stir just until blended. Transfer batter to pan; smooth top.
Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean and cake begins to pull away from sides of pan, about 45 minutes. Cool in pan on rack 15 minutes. Invert cake onto rack; cool completely.
Stir butter, golden brown sugar and instant espresso powder in small saucepan over medium heat until butter melts. Stir in cream. Simmer 1 minute. Remove from heat. Gradually add powdered sugar, whisking until smooth. Mix in bourbon. Cool slightly. Place cake atop rack on baking sheet. Slowly drizzle glaze over cake, allowing glaze to run down sides of cake and cover as much of cake as possible. Spoon any glaze drippings from baking sheet over cake. Let stand 30 minutes. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome. Let stand at room temperature.)
Serve cake with vanilla ice cream.

Mascarpone Cheesecake with Quince Compote 
1 1/3 cups pecans, toasted
1/2 cup walnuts, toasted
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
3 1/2 cups whipping cream
1/4 cup water
3 1/2 teaspoons unflavored gelatin (from 2 envelopes)
3 1/2 cups plus 2 tablespoons mascarpone cheese* (about 28 1/2 ounces; from four 8-ounce containers)
1 1/4 cups powdered sugar, sifted
Quince Compote

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Coarsely grind nuts with brown sugar in processor. Blend in melted butter. Press mixture over bottom (not sides) of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 1/2-inch-high sides. Bake until crust is set, about 12 minutes. Cool crust completely.
Pour 3 cups cream into medium bowl. Pour 1/4 cup water into small heatproof bowl; sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand 15 minutes. Place bowl with gelatin in small skillet of barely simmering water; stir until gelatin dissolves, about 2 minutes. Remove bowl from water. Pour remaining 1/2 cup cream into gelatin. Pour gelatin mixture into cream in bowl; whisk gently until well blended.
Using electric mixer, beat mascarpone and powdered sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in cream-gelatin mixture just until smooth. Pour filling over cooled crust. Cover and chill overnight. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.)
Using small sharp knife, cut around pan sides to loosen cheesecake. Remove pan sides. Place cake on platter. Cut cake into wedges and serve with compote.
*Italian cream cheese available at Italian markets and many supermarkets.

Gail's Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 stick unsalted butter
6 tablespoons granulated sugar
6 tablespoons brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 egg
1 cup semi-sweet morsels

1. Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Prepare baking sheets by spraying lightly with Pam.
2. Cream butter, both sugars, and vanilla. Beat in egg. Add baking soda and flour mixing only until smooth. Fold in chocolate chips. Use 16x24-inch baking sheets and drop cookies in 3 rows of 4.
3. Bake cookies, two baking sheets at a time. After 5 minutes take cookies out of the oven and rap on the stovetop until they deflate. Then return sheets to oven, placing the top sheet on the bottom rack, and the bottom sheet on the top rack. Continue to bake until cookies are golden brown, 4-6 more minutes.
4. Transfer immediately from cookie sheet to wire rack for cooling.

Cream Cheese Strudel Cookies 
1 cup all purpose flour
4 ounces chilled cream cheese, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1/2 cup apricot jam
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut
1 cup dried tart or Bing cherries

Combine first 3 ingredients in processor; blend until clumps form. Gather dough into ball; flatten into square. Wrap in plastic; freeze until cold enough to roll, about 15 minutes, or refrigerate up to 1 day.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter baking sheet. Cut dough crosswise in half. Roll out each piece on floured surface to 12x8-inch rectangle. Spread each with 1/4 cup jam. Top each with 1/2 cup coconut and 1/2 cup cherries. Starting at 1 long side, roll dough up jelly-roll style; seal long seam. Cut each roll crosswise into 12 pieces. Arrange pieces, cut side up, on prepared sheet. Flatten each to 1/2-inch thickness.
Bake cookies until golden brown, about 25 minutes. Cool on rack.

Warm Apple-Cornmeal Upside Down Cake 
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup plus 3/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 pounds Braeburn or Golden Delicious apples (about 4 medium), peeled, quartered, cored, each quarter cut into 2 wedges
3/4 cup all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup yellow cornmeal
1/2 cup boiling water
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup whole milk
Vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 1 1/2-inch-high sides; line pan with 10-inch-diameter parchment paper round (parchment will come 1/2 inch up sides of pan). Butter parchment. Melt 2 tablespoons butter in 10-inch-diameter nonstick skillet over medium heat. Add 1/2 cup sugar and cook until sugar dissolves and mixture turns deep golden brown, stirring occasionally, about 6 minutes. Add apple wedges and gently shake skillet to distribute caramel evenly. Cover and cook until apples release their juices, about 5 minutes. Uncover and cook until apples are tender and caramel thickens and coats apples, stirring occasionally, about 13 minutes. Transfer apples and caramel syrup to prepared cake pan, spreading evenly.
Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in small bowl to blend. Place cornmeal in large bowl; pour 1/2 cup boiling water over and stir to blend. Add 6 tablespoons butter and 3/4 cup sugar to cornmeal mixture. Using electric mixer, beat until well blended. Beat in eggs and vanilla. Beat in flour mixture alternately with milk in 2 additions each. Pour batter over apples in pan.
Bake cake until golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cake in pan 5 minutes. Run small knife between cake and pan sides to loosen cake. Carefully invert cake onto ovenproof or microwavable platter and peel off parchment. Cool 15 minutes. (Cake can be made up to 6 hours ahead. Rewarm in 350 degrees F oven about 10 minutes or microwave on medium just until slightly warm, about 2 minutes.)
Cut cake into wedges, place on plates, and serve warm with a scoop of vanilla ice cream.

Roasted Pear and Cinnamon Clafouti 
4 large Bosc pears, peeled, cored, quartered
1/4 cup pure maple syrup
3 large eggs
1 1/3 cups half and half
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup all purpose flour
1/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon (packed) golden brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
Pinch of salt

Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Butter 9-inch cast-iron skillet. Heat over medium-high heat. Add pears, rounded side down, to skillet and cook until golden brown, about 3 minutes per side. Spoon syrup over pears. Transfer skillet to oven and roast pears until tender, turning and basting once, about 10 minutes. Remove skillet from oven and bring pear mixture to boil over high heat; boil until almost all juices have evaporated, about 2 minutes. Cool to room temperature. Reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees F.
Place eggs, half and half, and vanilla in blender and process until smooth. Add flour, 1/4 cup sugar, 3/4 teaspoon cinnamon, and pinch of salt; blend to combine. Pour batter over pears in skillet. Bake until center is set and clafouti is puffed and golden brown at edges, about 40 minutes. Mix remaining 1 tablespoon sugar and 3/4 teaspoon cinnamon in small bowl. Sprinkle over clafouti; serve warm.

Lemon Thumbprint Cookies 
1 cup unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
2 large egg yolks
3 tablespoons grated lemon peel
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon salt
21/2 cups all purpose flour
6 tablespoons (about) jam or jelly

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 baking sheets. Using electric mixer, beat 1 cup butter and sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in egg yolks, lemon peel, lemon juice and salt. Add flour in 2 additions and beat just until moist clumps form. Gather dough together in bowl to bind dough. Form dough into 1-inch balls. Place balls on prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Using finger, make deep indentation in center of each ball.
Bake cookies until firm to touch and golden on bottom, about 22 minutes. Remove from oven. Immediately fill indentation in each cookie with scant 1/2 teaspoon jam or jelly. Transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store between sheets of waxed paper in airtight container at room temperature. Cookies will soften slightly.)

Apple and Walnut Sheet Cake with Caramel Sauce 
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 pounds Golden Delicious apples, peeled, cored, coarsely grated
1 cup walnuts, toasted, chopped
Purchased caramel sauce, heated

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13x9x2-inch metal baking pan. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, butter, eggs, and vanilla extract in large bowl until smooth. Add flour, cinnamon, baking soda, baking powder, and salt and beat just until blended. Stir in apples, then walnuts. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until top browns and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Cool in pan.
Cut cake into squares and serve with warm caramel sauce.

Oatmeal Cookies 
1 3/4 cups old-fashioned rolled oats
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup packed light brown sugar
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Grease baking sheets.
Stir together oats, flour, cinnamon, baking soda, and salt. Beat together butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Add egg and vanilla and beat until combined well. Add oat mixture and beat until just combined.
Drop dough by heaping tablespoons 2 inches apart onto baking sheets and flatten mounds slightly with moistened fingers. Bake cookies in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until golden, about 12 minutes total. Transfer to racks to cool.

Wedding Cake with Blackberries and Roses 
12 large eggs
3/4 cup milk
2 tablespoons vanilla
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
6 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
6 sticks unsalted butter (1 1/2 pounds), softened
3 cups sugar
4 cups lemon syrup
2 1/3 cups rose hip, rose fruit, or seedless blackberry jam (about 3 jars, 12 ounces each)
Cream-cheese frosting
8 (1/2-pint) containers blackberries (about 8 cups)
1 (12- by 2-inch) cake pan
1 (9- by 2-inch) cake pan
1 (6- by 2-inch) cake pan
2 packages Magi-Cake or homemade foil strips
1 (12-inch) serrated knife
4 (11-inch) cardboard rounds
4 (8-inch) cardboard rounds
4 (6-inch) cardboard rounds, trimmed to 5-inch rounds
1 medium-size piping bag and 3/16-inch plain tip
Cake base or large platter
5 (8-inch) plastic straws
Cake-decorating turntable (optional but very helpful)
Garnish: petals from 3 large organic and nontoxic roses and blackberries (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease cake pans and line bottom of each with a round of wax paper. Grease paper and dust pans with flour, knocking out excess. Wet Magi-Cake strips and fasten around each pan.
Whisk together eggs, milk, and vanilla. Whisk salt into flour in another bowl. Beat butter (it should be room temperature) with sugar in a 5-qt. standing electric mixer on medium speed until light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add flour and egg mixture alternately in 3 batches, ending with egg mixture and beating on low speed just until incorporated.
Divide batter among pans so each is filled to 1 inch from top. (If you have a wall oven or other small oven, see cooks' notes, below.) Bake in upper and lower thirds of oven, with 12-inch pan on upper rack, 20 minutes. Gently turn pans in place so that part of cake that was toward back of oven now faces front and bake cakes until a tester comes out of each with a few crumbs adhering, 10 to 20 minutes more, depending on cake size. Transfer each cake as done to a rack to cool. Cool cakes slightly (9-inch and 6-inch cakes for 10 minutes; 12-inch cake for 20 minutes) and invert onto racks, peeling off paper. Turn cakes right side up and cool completely.
Clean pans. Make second batch of batter; bake and cool cakes in same manner.
Work with 12-inch cakes first. Trim top of each with long serrated knife to make level, then cut cakes horizontally in half. Put each 12-inch layer, cut side up, on an 11-inch cardboard round. Brush cut sides generously with syrup. Stir jam until smooth and spread about 2/3 cup on a 12-inch layer. Invert another 12-inch layer (with cardboard), cut side down, onto jam. Discard top cardboard round and spread about 2 1/2 cups frosting on top. Sprinkle with 1 layer of blackberries to cover frosting. (If berries are 1 inch or larger, halve them lengthwise.) Slide the third 12-inch layer, syrup side up, onto berries, discarding cardboard, and press gently. Spread about 1/2 cup jam on layer and invert the last 12-inch layer (with cardboard), cut side down, onto jam, then discard cardboard.
Spoon 2 cups frosting onto 12-inch tier and cover cake with a thin coating. (This is called crumb-coating. It tamps down any loose crumbs to keep them out of the top layer of frosting and fills in any crevices.) Chill 12-inch tier while working on remaining tiers.
Trim and halve 9-inch cakes similarly and put on 8-inch rounds. Brush cut sides generously with syrup. Assemble and crumb-coat 9-inch tier in same manner (use about 1/3 cup jam and 1 1/4 cups frosting between layers; crumb-coat with about 1 1/2 cups frosting). Chill 9-inch tier.
Repeat procedure to make 6-inch tier (use about 2 1/2 tablespoons jam and about 3/4 cup frosting between layers; crumb-coat with about 3/4 cup frosting) and chill until firm.
Reserve 2 cups frosting for piping. Place 12-inch tier on cake base (preferably on a cake turntable) and frost. Then frost remaining tiers. Chill frosted tiers (do not stack) at least 4 hours.
Cut 3 straws in half and insert 1 straw piece in center of 12-inch tier all the way to bottom. Insert remaining 5 straw pieces in a circle about 1 1/2 inches from center straw and trim straws level with top of tier. (Straws support tiers.) Carefully put 9-inch tier (still on cardboard) in center of bottom tier. Cut remaining 2 straws in half and insert into middle tier in similar manner, with 1 straw piece in center and remaining 3 straw pieces in a circle around it. Carefully put 6-inch tier (still on cardboard) on top, in center of middle tier.
Fill in any gaps between tiers and any imperfections with frosting and transfer the remainder to pastry bag fitted with 3/16-inch tip. Pipe a decorative border around the bottom edge of each tier. Save remaining frosting for touch-ups—just in case.
Cake should come to room temperature before serving (it may stand at cool room temperature about 6 hours). Garnish cake with roses and serve slices with blackberries.

Gingersnap Cookies (Bubbee's Gingies) 
1 cup unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar plus additional for sprinkling
1 large egg
2 tablespoons finely grated peeled fresh gingerroot
2 tablespoons dark corn syrup
1 1/2 teaspoons freshly grated orange zest
1 tablespoon fresh orange juice
3 1/4 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1 tablespoon ground ginger

In a bowl with an electric mixer beat butter with 1 1/2 cups sugar until light and fluffy and add egg, beating until combined well. Beat in fresh gingerroot, corn syrup, zest, and orange juice. Into mixture sift remaining ingredients and beat just until combined well.
Halve dough and on a sheet of wax paper form each piece into a 10-inch log. Chill logs, wrapped in wax paper, at least 1 day and up to 1 week.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and lightly grease baking sheets.
Cut logs into 1/4-inch-thick slices and arrange 2 inches apart on baking sheets. Lightly sprinkle cookies with additional sugar and bake in batches in middle of oven 10 to 15 minutes, or until golden. Transfer cookies to racks to cool. Makes about 80 cookies.

Aunt Geraldine's Chocolate Cake 
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 cups sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup strong coffee
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 cup buttermilk
2 eggs, beaten to blend
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
6 to 8 tablespoons buttermilk
1 1-pound package powdered sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup chopped walnuts, toasted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9x13-inch pan; dust pan with flour. Sift flour, sugar and salt into large bowl. Combine coffee, butter, and cocoa in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium heat until mixture is smooth and comes to boil. Pour coffee mixture over flour mixture; stir until blended. Add buttermilk, eggs, cinnamon, baking soda and vanilla and stir until well blended. Pour batter into prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack.
Combine cocoa, butter and 6 tablespoons buttermilk in heavy large saucepan over high heat. Stir until mixture is smooth and comes to boil. Remove from heat. Add powdered sugar and vanilla and beat frosting until smooth, adding more buttermilk by tablespoons if frosting is too thick.
Spread frosting over cake in pan. Sprinkle walnuts over. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill. Let stand at room temperature 3 hours before serving.)

Lemon Shortcakes with Strawberries 
2 cups all purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup low-fat buttermilk
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled
3 12-ounce baskets strawberries, hulled
1/4 cup torn fresh mint leaves
3 tablespoons sugar
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Mix flour, sugar, baking powder, lemon peel and salt in large bowl. Whisk buttermilk and melted butter in medium bowl to blend. Add to flour mixture and stir just until moist dough forms. Drop 8 dough mounds (about 1/3 cup each) onto nonstick baking sheet. Using lightly floured hands, gently pat biscuits into neat 2 1/4-inch-diameter round about 1 1/4 inches high. Bake until biscuits are golden brown, about 15 minutes.
Slice 2 baskets strawberries; transfer to large bowl. Puree remaining 1 basket strawberries in processor until smooth. Add to sliced strawberries. Stir in mint, sugar and lemon juice.
Cut warm biscuits in half horizontally. Place bottom halves of biscuits on 8 plates. Spoon topping generously over, allowing some berries and juices to spill onto plates. Place top halves of biscuits over and serve.

Chocolate-Almond Torte 
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate,chopped
2 1/4 cups sliced almonds, toasted (about 8 ounces)
1 cup sugar
6 large eggs, separated
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
Powdered sugar
Chocolate curls (optional)
Coffee ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch- high sides. Combine chocolate, almonds and 1 cup sugar in processor. Process until all ingredients are very finely chopped and mixture appears grainy. Using electric mixer, beat yolks and vanilla in large bowl until pale yellow and thickened, about 3 minutes. Add chocolate mixture to yolk mixture and fold together (mixture will be very thick). Using mixer fitted with clean beaters, beat egg whites and cream of tartar in another large bowl to stiff peaks. Fold whites into batter in 3 additions.
Pour batter into cake pan. Bake until top is golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Transfer cake to rack and cool. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.) Run knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Transfer cake to platter. Sift powdered sugar over cake. Top with chocolate curls, if desired. Serve with ice cream.

Belgian Spice Cookies 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon ground cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 large egg
2 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), melted
Red colored sugar

Combine first 6 ingredients in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat brown sugar and butter in large bowl until light. Add egg and beat until fluffy. Gradually add dry ingredients and beat just until combined. Divide dough in half. Flatten each half into rectangle. Wrap with plastic; chill 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 large baking sheets. Roll out 1 dough piece on lightly floured work surface to 13 x 9-inch rectangle. Trim edges to form 12x8-inch rectangle. Cut into 24 4x1-inch rectangles. Lightly press miniature cookie cutter into each rectangle to make imprints (do not cut through dough). Arrange cookies on prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Bake until edges begin to darken, about 8 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool. Repeat with remaining dough piece.
Working with 1 cookie at a time, brush imprints with melted white chocolate. Sprinkle colored sugar generously over chocolate. Let stand until chocolate sets, about 2 hours. Shake off excess colored sugar. (Can be made ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature up to 1 week, or freeze up to 1 month.)

Blueberry-Raspberry Cake 
1 cup sugar
2/3 cup all purpose flour
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) butter
3 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup ( 1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 eggs
1 cup sour cream
1 cup fresh blueberries or frozen, thawed
1 cup fresh raspberries or frozen, unsweetened, thawed

Combine, sugar, flour, cinnamon and salt in medium bowl. Add butter and cut in until mixture resembles coarse meal. Set aside.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Grease and flour 9x13-inch baking pan. Sift flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, cream butter in large bowl until light. Add sugar and beat until light and fluffy. Mix in eggs 1 at a time. Mix in dry ingredients alternately with sour cream, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Combine berries in small bowl. Pour half of batter into prepared pan. Spoon berries over. Spread remaining batter over berries. Sprinkle with topping. Bake until tester inserted in center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cut into squares.

White Chocolate-Ginger Cheesecake 
13 ounces gingersnap cookies (about 50 cookies)
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon ground ginger
6 1/2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, cooled
1 pound good-quality chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), finely chopped
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/4 cup sugar
4 large eggs, room temperature
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon ground ginger
2/3 cup minced crystallized ginger
White chocolate curls

Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Wrap outside of pan with 2 layers of heavy-duty foil. Finely grind cookies, sugar and ginger in processor. Add butter; blend until moist clumps form. Press onto bottom and up sides of pan. Chill while preparing filling.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 300 degrees F. Stir white chocolate in top of double boiler set over hot water until chocolate melts. Cool to lukewarm, stirring occasionally.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add eggs and yolk 1 at a time, beating just until combined after each addition. Beat in vanilla and ground ginger. Gradually beat in melted white chocolate. Stir in crystallized ginger.
Transfer filling to prepared crust. Place springform pan in large roasting pan. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to come halfway up sides of springform pan. Bake until cheesecake puffs and edges crack slightly, about 1 1/2 hours.
Transfer cake to rack. Run small knife around sides of cake to loosen. Cool completely. Remove foil from pan sides. Chill cake overnight. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Cover and keep chilled.)
Release pan sides. Transfer cake to platter. Top with chocolate curls.

Sunshine Cheesecake 
1 1/2 8-ounce bags gingersnap cookies, ground (about 3 cups)
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) butter, melted
1 1/2 teaspoons (generous) minced orange peel (orange part only)
1 1/2 cups fresh orange juice
1 3-inch piece unpeeled fresh ginger, thinly sliced (about 1/3 cup)
4 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
2/3 cup sugar
1 tablespoon minced orange peel (orange part only)
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
8 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt), melted
4 large eggs
4 cups water
2 cups sugar
3 seedless oranges (unpeeled), cut into paper-thin slices
Fresh mint leaves

Stir all ingredients in medium bowl until crumbs are moist. Press crumbs onto bottom and 2 inches up sides of 9x2 3/4-inch springform pan.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Boil orange juice and ginger in heavy medium saucepan until reduced to 3 tablespoons, about 12 minutes. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, sugar, orange peel and vanilla in large bowl until smooth. Strain reduced orange juice and add to bowl. With mixer running, add chocolate and beat until combined. Reduced speed to low. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until just combined.
Pour batter into crust. Bake cheesecake until top is dry and sides puff slightly (most of cheesecake will jiggle when shaken), about 50 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool. Cover and chill overnight. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead.)
Cover rack with waxed paper. Combine water and sugar in heavy wide shallow pot. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Simmer 5 minutes. Add oranges slices 1 at a time. Adjust heat so syrup bubbles only around edges of pan. Cook oranges 1 hour. Turn over top layer of oranges and cook until oranges are translucent and orange peels are tender, about 1 hour longer. Arrange oranges in single layer on prepared rack. Let dry 1 hour. Boil sugar syrup until thick, about 6 minutes. (Can be prepared 6 hours ahead.)
Run small knife around edges of cheesecake. Loosen pan sides and remove. Overlap orange slices and atop cheesecake. Reheat orange syrup over low heat if necessary. Brush over orange slices. Garnish with mint and serve.

Plum Küchen 
1 11-ounce tube refrigerated French bread dough (such as Pillsbury)
1/2 cup plus 4 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons cornstarch
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
7 large plums (about 1 1/2 pounds), halved, pitted, each cut into 8 wedges, or 3 large pears, peeled, pitted, each cut into 12 wedges
1 egg white
Frozen vanilla yogurt (optional)

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Spray 13x9x2-inch baking pan with vegetable oil spray. Unroll dough on work surface. Sprinkle half of dough with 2 tablespoons sugar. Fold other half of dough over. Transfer dough to prepared pan and press over bottom of pan and 1/2 inch up sides.
Stir 1/2 cup sugar, cornstarch and cinnamon in large bowl until cornstarch is free of lumps. Add plums and egg white and toss to combine evenly. Let stand 5 minutes. Arrange plum wedges in rows on crust. Pour sugar mixture from bowl over plums. Sprinkle remaining 2 tablespoons sugar over plums.
Bake kuchen until crust is brown and crisp and plums are tender, 35 to 40 minutes. Using large spatula, transfer kuchen to rack to cool 15 minutes. Cut into squares and serve with frozen vanilla yogurt, if desired.

Christmas Tree Shortbread 
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup powdered sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 teaspoons almond extract
3 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons salt
3/4 cup (about) raspberry jam
Almond Icing
Green food coloring

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until light. Gradually beat in powdered sugar. Beat in extracts. Add flour and salt and stir just until combined. Gather dough into ball; divide in half. Flatten each half into disk. Wrap in plastic and refrigerate until firm, about 1 hour.
Line 3 heavy large baking sheets with parchment paper. Roll out 1 dough disk on lightly floured surface to 1/8-inch thickness, frequently lifting and turning dough to prevent sticking. Cut out cookies, using 3-inch-long Christmas-tree cookie cutter. Gather scraps, reroll and cut out total of 36 cookies, placing 12 cookies on each prepared sheet. Spread 1 teaspoon jam in center of each cookie.
Roll out remaining dough disk and cut out more cookies. Cut out centers of each cookie, using 1-inch triangle cookie cutter. Using metal spatula, lift cookie frames onto jam-topped cookies. Gather scraps, reroll and cut additional cookie frames, making total of 36. Place on jam-topped cookies. Bake cookies until slightly golden brown around edges, about 25 minutes. Transfer to racks and cool.
Place half of Almond Icing in resealable plastic bag. Mix enough food coloring into remaining icing to make desired green color. Transfer green icing to another resealable plastic bag. Cut very tip off 1 corner of each bag. Pipe white icing along edges of trees. Pipe green icing in dots on trees. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Banana Upside-Down Cake 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 firm but ripe large bananas, peeled, cut diagonally into 1/4-inch-thick slices
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Melt 1/2 cup butter in heavy small saucepan. Remove from heat. Add brown sugar and stir until smooth. Pour into 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Arrange banana slices in concentric circles atop sugar mixture, submerging into sugar mixture and covering bottom of pan completely.
Beat 1 1/2 cups sugar and remaining 1/2 cup butter in large bowl to blend. Add eggs and vanilla and beat until smooth. Sift 2 cups flour, 1 tablespoon baking powder and 1/2 teaspoon salt into medium bowl. Add dry ingredients to butter mixture alternately with milk, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Beat 2 minutes. Spoon batter over bananas.
Bake cake until puffed and golden brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean (cake will rise above rim of pan), about 1 hour. Transfer pan to rack and cool 5 minutes (cake will fall slightly). Place platter over cake. Turn cake pan and platter over, inverting cake onto platter. Let stand 15 minutes. Remove cake pan. Rearrange bananas if necessary. Serve warm.

Chocolate, Cherry and Marsala Cassata 
1/3 cup dried currants
5 tablespoons Marsala
1 17-ounce can dark sweet pitted cherries in syrup, drained (syrup reserved for frosting)
1 15-ounce container ricotta cheese
1/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons whipping cream
1 16-ounce pound cake
12 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/4 cup Marsala
1 cup (2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
Reserved cherry syrup

Combine dried currants and 2 tablespoons Marsala in small bowl. Let currants macerate 15 minutes. Cut cherries into eighths and drain on paper towels. Drain currants.
Puree ricotta cheese, sugar, remaining 3 tablespoons Marsala and whipping cream in processor until smooth. Transfer to medium bowl. Gently mix in currants and cherries.
Peel any loose crust from pound cake and discard. Cut pound cake lengthwise into 3 horizontal layers. Place bottom layer on serving platter. Spread half of filling over. Place second pound cake layer atop filling. Spread remaining filling over. Arrange third pound cake layer atop filling. Smooth sides with rubber spatula. Refrigerate cassata until filling is firm, about 2 hours.
Combine 1/2 cup reserved cherry syrup, semisweet chocolate and Marsala in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Remove from heat. Add unsalted butter a few pieces at a time and whisk until melted. Refrigerate frosting until thickened to spreading consistency, stirring occasionally, about 20 minutes.
Slide sheets of waxed paper under edges of cassata. Transfer 1 cup chocolate frosting to pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Spread remaining chocolate frosting over sides and top of cassata. Pipe frosting in pastry bag in swirls on long sides and in rosettes along upper edges of cassata. Refrigerate until set. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.) Let cassata stand at room temperature 20 minutes before serving.

Spiced Prune-Almond 'Coffee' Cake 
3/4 cup whole unblanched almonds, toasted, finely chopped
1 cup buttermilk
2 1/2 tablespoons instant coffee granules
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
2 1/2 cups unbleached all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
3 extra-large eggs, room temperature
1 cup (about 6 ounces) pitted prunes, coarsely chopped
1 tablespoon grated orange peel
1/2 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup whipping cream
1 teaspoon instant coffee granules
Orange slices (optional)
Cinnamon stick (optional)

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Generously butter 10-inch (12-cup) tube pan. Sprinkle half of almonds into pan. Tilt to coat bottom and halfway up sides with nuts (do not tap out excess). Combine buttermilk, instant coffee, vanilla and almond extracts in small bowl. Stir until coffee dissolves. Sift flour, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, salt and ground cloves into medium bowl.
Using electric mixer, cream butter and sugar in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Slowly mix in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk mixture, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Mix in prunes and orange peel. Pour batter into prepared pan. Sprinkle with remaining almonds. Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 50 minutes. Cool 30 minutes in pan on rack. Turn cake out onto rack. Quickly turn upright onto platter and cool until just warm.
Combine brown sugar, butter and cream in heavy small saucepan. Stir over medium-high heat until butter melts. Boil 2 minutes. Mix in instant coffee granules. Cool slightly. Drizzle glaze over cake.
Garnish cake with orange slices and cinnamon stick if desired and serve warm or at room temperature.

Pineapple Upside-Down Cake with Dried Cherries 
1 20-ounce can unsweetened whole pineapple slices in juice
2 1/2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/4 cup dried tart cherries
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3 large egg whites
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sugar
2 large egg yolks
1/3 cup low-fat (1%) milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Drain pineapple, reserving 5 tablespoons juice. Set aside 1 whole pineapple slice; cut 4 slices in half (reserve remainder for another use).
Melt butter in 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides over low heat. Transfer 1 1/2 tablespoons butter to small bowl and reserve; leave remaining butter in pan. Add brown sugar and 3 tablespoons pineapple juice to pan. Stir over medium heat until mixture boils and thickens slightly, about 45 seconds. Remove from heat. Place whole pineapple slice in center of pan atop sugar mixture. Surround with halved pineapple slices, rounded side toward pan edge. Sprinkle cherries in hollows of pineapple slices.
Mix flour and baking powder in small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites and salt in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1/4 cup sugar; beat until stiff peaks form. Using same beaters, beat yolks and 1/4 cup sugar in another large bowl until well blended. Mix in milk, vanilla and reserved 1 1/2 tablespoons butter. Beat in flour mixture just until blended. Fold whites into batter in 3 additions. Spread batter over pineapple slices in pan.
Bake cake until golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool in pan 5 minutes. Place platter over cake; then invert cake onto platter. Remove pan; rearrange any fruit that may have become dislodged. Cool cake on platter 30 minutes. Brush 2 tablespoons pineapple juice over pineapple. Cool completely.

Peanut Butter Chocolate-Chip Cupcakes with Chocolate Icing 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons double acting baking powder
1/2 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
1/4 cup chunky peanut butter
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup milk
1 1/4 cups semisweet chocolate chips
1/4 cup heavy cream

In a bowl whisk together the flour, the baking powder, and a pinch of salt. In another bowl with an electric mixer cream together the brown sugar, the peanut butter, and the butter and beat in the egg and the vanilla. Beat in the flour mixture alternately with the milk, beating well after each addition, and stir in 1/2 cup of the chocolate chips. Divide the batter among 12 paper-lined 1/2-cup muffin tins and bake the cupcakes in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 20 to 25 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Turn the cupcakes out onto a rack and let them cool completely.
In another bowl combine the remaining 3/4 cup chocolate chips and the cream, scalded, let the chips soften, and whisk the mixture until it is smooth. Let the icing cool completely, whisk it until it is fluffy, and spread it on the cupcakes.

Chocolate-Orange Carrot Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 cups vegetable oil
4 large eggs
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
2 1/4 cups sugar
2/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups finely shredded peeled carrots (about 10 ounces)
1 cup (packed) sweetened flaked coconut
1 1/2 teaspoons grated orange peel
1 11-ounce can mandarin oranges, drained, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
2 1/2 cups semisweet chocolate chips (about 15 ounces)
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted nondairy (pareve) margarine, room temperature
1/3 cup powdered sugar
1/4 cup frozen orange juice concentrate, thawed
Additional canned mandarin orange segments, drained, patted very dry

Preheat oven to 350¡F. Spray two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Using electric mixer, beat 1 1/2 cups oil and eggs in large bowl until well blended and thick, about 2 minutes. Add flour, sugar, cocoa powder, baking soda and salt; beat at low speed to blend. Increase speed; beat 1 minute longer (batter will be very thick). Stir in carrots, coconut and orange peel, then orange pieces. Divide batter between prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cakes in pans 10 minutes. Turn out onto racks; cool completely.
Stir chocolate chips in heavy medium saucepan over very low heat until melted and smooth. Remove from heat and cool to lukewarm. Spoon 1/3 cup chocolate into small bowl and reserve for decoration. Beat margarine and sugar in medium bowl until fluffy. Beat in remaining melted chocolate and orange juice concentrate.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread with 2/3 cup frosting. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Arrange additional orange segments around top edge of cake. Rewarm 1/3 cup reserved chocolate to pourable consistency if necessary. Drizzle orange segments with chocolate. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate.)

Aunt Lisl's Butter Cookies 
1/2 pound (2 sticks) unsalted butter or margarine, softened
3/4 cup sugar
2 eggs
1 tablespoon brandy (optional)
Dash of salt
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
3 1/2 cups flour
1 egg yolk
Chopped nuts and raisins
1 egg white
Coarse sugar colored with blue food coloring
Measuring cup
Measuring spoons
Mixing bowl
Wooden spoon
Cookie cutters or toothpicks
Rolling pin
Greased baking sheet
Pastry brush
Metal spatula
Cooling rack

Child: In a bowl, cream the butter and sugar. Then mix in the eggs, brandy, salt, vanilla, and flour. Let rest for at least 30 minutes in the refrigerator.
Adult with Child: Roll out the dough to 1/8-inch thick. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Child: You can either use cookie cutters or use the point of a toothpick like a knife to cut out cookies in any shapes you want. Let your imagination run free; how about dreidels, Stars of David, candles with flames attached, the four Hebrew letters on the dreidel?
Once you have cut out the cookies, gently place them on the baking sheet. Then either brush them with egg yolk and sprinkle with nuts and raisins or brush with egg white and sprinkle with blue sugar.
Adult: Bake for about 10 minutes, or until golden brown. Use a metal spatula to gently remove each cookie from the baking sheet to a cooling rack or flat plate.

Plum Upside-Down Cake 
12 tablespoons (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup packed golden brown sugar
1 tablespoon honey
6 large plums, halved, pitted, each half cut into 6 wedges
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
1/2 cup milk
Lightly sweetened whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Stir 6 tablespoons butter, brown sugar and honey in heavy medium skillet over low heat until butter melts and sugar and honey blend in, forming thick, smooth sauce. Transfer to 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Arrange plums in overlapping concentric circles atop sauce.
Mix flour, baking powder, cinnamon and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat remaining 6 tablespoons butter in large bowl until light. Add sugar and beat until creamy. Add eggs and beat until light and fluffy. Beat in extracts. Add dry ingredients alternately with milk, mixing just until blended. Spoon batter evenly over plums. Bake cake until golden and tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 1 hour 5 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool in pan 30 minutes.
Using knife, cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Place platter atop cake pan. Invert cake; place platter on work surface. Let stand 5 minutes. Gently lift off pan. Serve cake warm with whipped cream.

Chocolate Chip Bar Cookies with Pecans 
1 pound dark brown sugar (about 2 cups firmly packed)
2/3 cup solid vegetable shortening, melted, cooled
3 large eggs
2 2/3 cups all purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 12-ounce package semisweet chocolate chips
1 cup coarsely chopped pecans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and shortening in large bowl to blend. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Sift flour, baking powder and salt over batter; beat to blend. Mix in chocolate chips and nuts. Spread batter in prepared pan.
Bake until top is golden and tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs still attached, about 35 minutes. Cool in pan on rack; cut into bars.

Ginger Cheesecake with Sour Cherry Compote 
3 cups gingersnap cookie crumbs (about 12 ounces)
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) chilled butter, cut into small pieces
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons minced peeled fresh ginger
4 large eggs, room temperature
2 cups sour cream
1/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons chopped crystallized ginger
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
Sour Cherry Compote

Position rack in center of oven; preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Wrap outside of pan with foil. Blend cookie crumbs and butter in processor until moist clumps form. Press crumbs on bottom and up sides of pan. Chill crust while preparing filling.
Blend cream cheese in processor until smooth. Add sugar, vanilla and salt; process until smooth, occasionally scraping down sides of work bowl. Blend in ginger. Add eggs; process just until blended. Pour filling into crust.
Bake cake 15 minutes. Cover top of pan loosely with foil. Continue to bake cake until sides begin to puff and center is softly set, about 50 minutes longer. Transfer to rack; uncover and let stand 5 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Whisk first 5 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Spoon over cake. Return to oven; bake until topping sets, about 10 minutes.
Transfer cake to rack. Cut around pan sides. Let cool. Cover; chill overnight. Release pan sides. Cut cake into wedges. Serve with Sour Cherry Compote.

Holiday Date-Nut Cookies 
1 pound pitted dates, chopped
8 ounces candied pineapple, chopped (about 1 2/3 cups)
1 1/2 cups coarsely chopped Brazil nuts (about 8 ounces)
2 cups blanched slivered almonds, lightly toasted (about 8 ounces)
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 large eggs

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Line cookie sheets with parchment. Combine fruit and nuts in bowl. Add 1/2 cup flour and mix to separate pieces. Combine remaining 2 cups flour, baking soda, cinnamon and salt in small bowl. Beat butter in large bowl until light. Gradually add sugar, beating until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Fold dry ingredients into butter mixture. Mix in fruits and nuts.
Drop dough by rounded tablespoonfuls onto prepared cookie sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Bake until cookies are golden brown, about 10 minutes. Cool 2 minutes on cookie sheets. Transfer to rack and cool. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Almond Cake with Kirsch 
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 7-ounce package almond paste, broken into pieces
3 large eggs
1 tablespoon kirsch (clear cherry brandy)
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup cake flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 8-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Dust pan with flour; tap out excess. Using electric mixer, beat 3/4 cup sugar and butter in large bowl until light and creamy. Add almond paste, 1 piece at a time, beating until well blended after each addition. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Mix in kirsch, almond extract and salt. Mix flour and baking powder in small bowl; add to batter. Beat just until blended. Spoon batter into prepared pan; smooth top.
Bake cake until top is golden brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool in pan on rack.
Transfer cake to platter. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.) Dust with powdered sugar and serve.

Mrs. Kolbert's Coconut Bars 
1 1/2 cups firmly packed light brown sugar
1 cup plus 3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 1/2 cups sweetened flaked coconut
1 cup chopped blanched almonds
2 large eggs, beaten lightly
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 teaspoon salt

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. In a bowl with a fork stir together 1/2 cup of the brown sugar, 1 cup of the flour, and the butter until the mixture is combined well, press the mixture evenly onto the bottom of a 13-by 9-inch baking pan, and bake it in the middle of the oven for 10 minutes. In the bowl with the fork combine the remaining 1 cup brown sugar, the remaining 3 tablespoons flour, the coconut, the almonds, the eggs, the vanilla, and the salt and blend the mixture well. Spread the coconut mixture evenly over the crust and bake the mixture for 20 minutes, or until it is pale golden. Cut the mixture into 48 bars and let the bar cool completely in the pan on a rack. The coconut bars may be made 1 month in advance and kept frozen in airtight containers.

Peanut Butter Cake with Chocolate-Peanut Butter Icing 
1 18.25-ounce package yellow cake mix
2 1/2 cups creamy peanut butter (do not use old-fashioned or freshly ground)
3/4 cup chocolate syrup
8 ounces semisweet chocolate
1 cup powdered sugar
1/4 cup milk
Chopped peanuts

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease and flour 2 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 3/4-inch-high sides. Prepare cake according to package directions, beating in 1/2 cup peanut butter. Divide between prepared pans. Bake until toothpick inserted into centers comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely.
Combine chocolate syrup and semisweet chocolate in heavy small saucepan. Stir constantly over low heat until chocolate is melted and mixture is smooth. Transfer chocolate mixture to large bowl. Stir in remaining 2 cups peanut butter, then powdered sugar, then milk. Continue stirring until smooth. Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread top with 1 1/2 cups icing. Top with second cake layer. Spread top and sides of cake evenly with remaining icing. Garnish with chopped peanuts. (Can be prepared up to 1 day ahead. Cover.) Cut into wedges and serve.

Spiced Chocolate Chunk Walnut Cookies 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/3 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 2/3 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
14 ounces semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
1 cup coarsely chopped toasted walnuts
Powdered sugar

Beat first 3 ingredients in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add egg and vanilla and beat until blended. Sift flour, salt, ginger, cinnamon and baking soda into butter mixture. Beat until blended. Stir in chocolate and walnuts. Refrigerate dough until firm, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 heavy large baking sheets with parchment paper. Form dough into balls, using generous tablespoon for each. Roll each ball in powdered sugar. Place on prepared baking sheets, spacing 2 inches apart.
Bake cookies until golden brown, about 18 minutes. Transfer baking sheets to racks. Cool 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Pecan Thins 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
6 tablespoons sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
4 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 cup pecans, chopped fine, toasted lightly, and cooled completely

Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.
In a bowl beat together butter, sugar, and salt until light and fluffy and beat in whites and vanilla until just combined. Sift flour over batter and fold in. Fold in pecans.
Drop batter by rounded teaspoons about 3 inches apart onto well-buttered baking sheets and with the back of a fork pat into 2 1/2-inch rounds. Bake cookies in batches in middle of oven until golden around edges, about 5 minutes. Working quickly, with a metal spatula carefully loosen cookies immediately and transfer to racks to cool completely. (If cookies become too firm to remove from baking sheets, return to over for a few seconds to soften.) Cookies may be made 1 day ahead and kept, layers separated by wax paper, in an airtight container.

Danish Diamonds 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
3 eggs, beaten to blend
1/4 cup whipping cream
3 1/2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
3/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
Vegetable oil (for deep frying)
Powdered sugar

Combine unsalted butter and 1 cup sugar in large bowl. Using wooden spoon, stir mixture until well combined. Whisk eggs and whipping cream in small bowl to blend. Gradually mix egg mixture into butter mixture. Sift flour, baking powder, salt, ground cardamom and ground nutmeg into medium bowl. Add to butter mixture and mix until soft dough forms. Divide dough into 4 pieces. Wrap each dough piece tightly in plastic; flatten each into disk. Refrigerate dough pieces overnight.
Roll out 1 dough piece on floured work surface to thickness of scant 1/4 inch. Cut dough into 2-inch-wide strips. Cut strips crosswise and diagonally at 3-inch intervals to form diamond shapes. Cut 1 1/2-inch-long lengthwise slit in center of each diamond. Gently push one end of one pastry corner through slit and gently pull end back toward its original position. Place on ungreased cookie sheet. Repeat with remaining diamonds. Gather scraps, reroll and cut out additional diamonds. Cover and refrigerate diamonds while rolling and shaping remaining dough disks.
Pour vegetable oil into heavy deep skillet to depth of 2 inches. Heat to 350 degrees F. Add 5 cookies to oil and fry until puffed and golden brown on both sides, turning once, about 3 minutes. Using slotted spoon, transfer to paper towels and drain. Repeat frying of remaining cookies in batches.
Fill large plate with powdered sugar. Roll cookies in powdered sugar to coat. (Cookies can be made 1 week ahead. Store between sheets of waxed paper in air-tight containers at room temperature.)

Shortbread Base 
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Cut butter into 1/2-inch pieces. In a food processor process all ingredients until mixture begins to form small lumps. Sprinkle mixture into a 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan and with a metal spatula press evenly onto bottom. Bake shortbread in middle of oven until golden, about 20 minutes. While shortbread is baking, prepare topping.

Poppy-Seed Angel Food Cakes with Lemon Syrup 
vegetable-oil cooking spray
4 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/2 cup superfine sugar
1/3 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon freshly grated lemon zest
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon poppy seeds
four 3- by 1 1/2-inch stainless-steel entremet (pastry) rings
Garnish: 1 1/2 teaspoons confectioners' sugar
Accompaniment:Lemon Syrup

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Set rings on a baking sheet and lightly spray insides with cooking spray.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat whites until frothy. Add cream of tartar and beat until whites just hold soft peaks. Beat in superfine sugar, a little at a time, and beat until whites just hold stiff peaks. Sift flour with salt over whites and gently fold in with remaining ingredients.
Spoon batter into rings, mounding batter, and bake in middle of oven until golden brown, about 20 minutes (cakes will fall slightly during baking). Transfer rings on sheet to a rack to cool. Run a thin knife around edges of rings and gently remove cakes, transferring them to plates.
Dust cakes with confectioners' sugar and spoon syrup around them.

Hanukkah Cutout Cookies 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter or solid vegetable shortening, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 cups powdered sugar
2 tablespoons (or more) milk
1 1/2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
3 to 4 drops blue food coloring

Using electric mixer, cream butter and sugar in large bowl until light. Beat in egg, lemon juice, lemon peel and vanilla. Mix flour, baking powder and salt in small bowl. Add to butter mixture and stir until well combined. Divide dough into 3 pieces. Flatten each into disk. Wrap each in plastic and chill 2 hours or overnight.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Roll out 1 dough piece on lightly floured surface to thickness of 1/8 inch. Using Hanukkah cookie cutters dipped into flour, cut out cookies. Transfer to ungreased cookie sheets, spacing evenly. Gather scraps, reroll and cut out additional cookies, chilling dough if necessary. Bake until cookie edges are golden, about 10 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool. Repeat rolling, cutting and baking with remaining dough pieces in batches.
Place sugar in bowl. Stir in 2 tablespoons milk and lemon juice. Add more milk if icing is too thick to pipe. Transfer half of icing to another bowl. Mix food coloring into half of icing.
Spoon plain and colored icings into separate pastry bags fitted with small round tips or into parchment cones. Pipe icings decoratively onto cookies. Let stand until icing sets, about 2 hours. (Can be made 1 week ahead. Store cookies in single layers in airtight containers.)

Gingersnaps 
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1 cup packed brown sugar
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter
1/4 cup unsulfured molasses
1 large egg
parchment paper
1/4 cup granulated sugar

Into a large bowl sift together 1 cup plus 2 tablespoons flour, baking soda, and spices and whisk in brown sugar. In a small saucepan melt butter and whisk into flour mixture with molasses and egg until combined well. With a wooden spoon stir in remaining 1 cup plus 2 tablespoons flour until combined well. Chill dough, covered, until firm, at least 1 hour, and up to 2 days.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and line baking sheets with parchment paper.
Roll level tablespoons of dough into balls and in a small bowl roll balls in granulated sugar to coat. Arrange balls about 2 inches apart on baking sheets and bake in batches in middle of oven until flattened and a shade darker, 10 to 12 minutes. (Cookies will puff slightly and then collapse slightly, and tops will be covered with little cracks.) Cool cookies on baking sheets 2 minutes and transfer with a spatula to racks to cool completely. Cookies keep in an airtight container at room temperature 5 days.

Cranberry Swirl Cheesecake with Cranberry-Raspberry Compote 
2 cups fresh cranberries or frozen, thawed
2/3 cup sugar
2/3 cup fresh orange juice
2 tablespoons grated orange peel
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
4 teaspoons vanilla extract
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 3/4 cups finely ground butter biscuit cookies or butter cookies
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup whipping cream
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
Cranberry-Raspberry Compote

Combine all ingredients except vanilla in heavy large saucepan. Cook over medium heat until mixture thickens, stirring occasionally, about 5 minutes. Cool slightly. Transfer to processor. Add vanilla. Puree until smooth. Strain into medium bowl. Cover with plastic. Refrigerate at least 6 hours.
Spray 10-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Wrap outside of pan with 2 layers of heavy-duty foil. Blend cookies, sugar and cinnamon in processor. Add butter; blend until moist clumps form. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and up sides of pan. Chill crust while preparing filling.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in sugar. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Mix in sour cream, whipping cream and vanilla.
Transfer 1/3 of filling to prepared crust. Dollop 1/3 of cranberry puree atop filling. Repeat layering of filling and puree 2 more times. Using knife, swirl puree through filling, creating marbled design.
Place springform pan in large roasting pan. Pour enough boiling water into roasting pan to come halfway up sides of springform pan. Bake until cheesecake puffs around edges, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Turn off oven. Let cake stand in oven 1 hour, leaving oven door ajar.
Transfer cake to rack. Run knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Cool completely. Remove foil from pan sides. Cover cake and chill overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
Remove pan sides. Serve cake with Cranberry-Raspberry Compote.

Pecan-Pie Bars 
8 ounces pecans (about 2 cups)
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter
1 cup packed light brown sugar
1/3 cup honey
2 tablespoons heavy cream
hot shortbread base

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
In a food processor coarsely chop pecans. In a heavy saucepan melt butter and stir in brown sugar, honey, and cream. Simmer mixture, stirring occasionally, 1 minute and stir in pecans. Pour pecan mixture over hot shortbread and spread evenly. Bake in middle of oven until bubbling, about 20 minutes. Cool completely in pan and cut into 24 bars. Bar cookies keep, covered, 5 days at room temperature.

Iced Lemon Cookies 
1/2 cup sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
3 large eggs
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 tablespoon butter
3 cups powdered sugar, sifted
2 tablespoons (or more) water
2 tablespoons lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with foil. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, unsalted butter, vanilla extract and grated lemon peel in large bowl until blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition (mixture may appear curdled). Continue beating 1 minute. Combine flour and baking powder in small bowl. Add to butter mixture and stir to form soft sticky dough.
Spoon dough into pastry bag fitted with 3/8-inch-wide round tip. Pipe 2-inch-diameter rings onto prepared sheets, spacing apart. Using fingertips dipped into water, press ends of each ring together into smooth ring. Bake until golden brown, about 20 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare icing.
Melt butter in heavy medium saucepan over low heat. Add sugar, 2 tablespoons water, lemon juice and vanilla extract and whisk until sugar melts and mixture is heated through. Thin with more water if icing is too thick to brush.
Remove cookies from oven. Immediately brush warm icing over hot cookies. Cool iced cookies on sheets 2 minutes. Transfer on rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Lime Almond Cheesecake 
7 ounces blanched whole almonds (about 1 1/4 cups)
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
1/4 cup sugar
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons fresh lime juice
4 large eggs
a 16-ounce container sour cream
1/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon fresh lime juice
1 teaspoon almond extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and butter a 10-inch springform pan.
In a food processor pulse almonds until finely ground and transfer to a bowl. Dust sides of springform pan with about 3 tablespoons ground almonds, knocking excess back into bowl. Melt butter and cool slightly. Stir butter and sugar into almonds until combined well and press evenly onto bottom of springform pan.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat cream cheese and sugar on low speed 2 minutes. Add lime juice and a pinch salt and beat until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition.
Pour filling into pan and bake cheesecake 45 minutes. Remove cheesecake from oven (keep oven at 350 degrees F.) and let stand 10 minutes.
Let sour cream stand at room temperature 30 minutes. In a bowl whisk together sour cream, sugar, lime juice, and almond extract.
Drop spoonfuls of topping around edge of cheesecake and spread gently over entire top of cake, smoothing evenly. Bake cheesecake in middle of oven 10 minutes and transfer immediately to refrigerator. Chill cheesecake at least 8 hours, or until cold, and up to 2 days, covering after 8 hours. Run a thin knife around edge of pan and remove side.

S'mores 
24 Carr's wheatmeal biscuits*
1 1/4 three-ounce bars Lindt or other fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), broken into 36 pieces
12 marshmallows
*available at specialty foods shops and many supermarkets

Prepare grill.
Arrange 12 biscuits on twelve 8-inch square sheets of foil and arrange 3 pieces chocolate in a flat triangle on each. Toast marshmallows over flames until golden and put 1 marshmallow on top of each chocolate triangle. Top marshmallows with remaining biscuits to make sandwiches and wrap in foil.
On a rack set 5 to 6 inches over glowing coals heat s'mores 1 minute each side, or until chocolate is melted.

White Cake with Coconut, Pecan and Chocolate Chip Frosting 
1 2/3 cups sugar
2/3 cup solid vegetable shortening
3 large eggs
2 large egg whites
1 1/4 cups whole milk
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
2 cups self-rising flour
1 5-ounce can evaporated milk
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
1/2 cup sugar
3 large egg yolks, beaten to blend
1 tablespoon all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups chopped pecans
1 1/2 cups flaked sweetened coconut
1 1/2 cups semisweet chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and vegetable shortening in large bowl to blend. Beat in eggs and egg whites, then milk and vanilla extract. Add flour and beat just until blended. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cake in pan.
Combine first 6 ingredients in heavy large saucepan. Whisk constantly over medium-low heat until butter melts and mixture thickens (do not boil), about 10 minutes. Stir in pecans and coconut. Cool until frosting is thick enough to spread but is still warm, about 40 minutes.
Spread warm frosting over cake in pan. Let cool completely. Sprinkle chocolate chips over cake, pressing gently to adhere. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Bring to room temperature before serving.)

Lemon Buttermilk Cake with Strawberries 
1 3/4 cups sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons grated lemon peel
3 extra-large eggs
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
3 cups cake flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups buttermilk
1 16-ounce package frozen sliced sweetened strawberries, thawed
12 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups powdered sugar
5 tablespoons frozen lemonade concentrate, thawed
1/2 teaspoon finely grated lemon peel
2 1-pint baskets strawberries, hulled.

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Beat sugar, butter and lemon peel in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in lemon juice. Sift flour, baking soda and salt into medium bowl. Stir dry ingredients into butter mixture alternately with buttermilk, beginning and ending with dry ingredients.
Divide batter among prepared pans. Bake until tester inserted into center of cakes comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Transfer pans to racks and cool 15 minutes. Turn out cakes onto racks and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap tightly in plastic and store at room temperature.)
Boil sliced sweetened strawberries with juices in heavy small saucepan over medium-high heat until mixture is reduced to 2/3 cup and begins to thicken, stirring frequently, about 20 minutes. Cool to room temperature.
Beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Gradually add powdered sugar and beat until smooth. Beat in lemonade concentrate and lemon peel.
Divide strawberry mixture between 2 cake layers and spread over tops, leaving 1/2-inch border around edges. Let stand until slightly set, about 5 minutes. Place 1 strawberry-topped layer on platter. Drop 3/4 cup frosting atop cake by spoonfuls; gently spread over top. Top with remaining strawberry-topped layer. Drop 3/4 cup frosting by spoonfuls atop cake; gently spread over top. Top with remaining cake layer. Using spatula, spread remaining frosting in decorative swirls over sides and top of cake. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and chill. Let cake stand at room temperature 1 hour before continuing.)
Decoratively arrange strawberries, pointed side up, atop cake. Cut into wedges and serve.

Coconut-Macadamia Crescents 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup powdered sugar, sifted
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 teaspoons coconut extract
2 1/4 cups sifted all purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup chopped, roasted, salted macadamia nuts
1 egg white, beaten to blend
1 cup sweetened shredded coconut
Additional powdered sugar

Using electric mixer, beat butter in medium bowl until light. Gradually beat in 3/4 cup powdered sugar. Beat in extracts. Stir in flour and salt, then macadamia nuts. Refrigerate dough 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line 3 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Pinch off 1 tablespoon dough; shape into 2-inch-long, 1/2-inch-thick crescent. Repeat with remaining dough. Brush crescents with egg white, then dip tops into coconut. Place crescents, coconut side up, on parchment-lined sheets, spacing cookies 1 inch apart. Bake until just barely golden brown, about 20 minutes. Cool cookies on sheets on rack. Sift additional powdered sugar over cookies. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead. Transfer cookies to airtight container and freeze. Bring to room temperature before serving.)

Ginger Biscotti with Pistachios 
2/3 cup whole almonds, toasted (about 3 ounces)
1 3/4 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons grated orange peel
1 large egg yolk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
2/3 cup coarsely chopped pistachios (about 3 ounces)
1 egg, beaten to blend (glaze)

Butter and flour large baking sheet. Finely grind almonds with flour, ginger and baking powder in processor. Beat butter, brown sugar and 1/4 cup sugar in large bowl until well blended. Add orange peel, egg and vanilla and beat well. Add dry ingredients and beat until just blended. Stir in pistachios.
Divide dough in half. Using floured hands, roll each half on lightly floured surface into 1/2-inch log. Arrange logs on prepared sheet, spacing 4 inches apart. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate until cold, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Brush dough logs with some of egg glaze. Sprinkle with 2 teaspoons of sugar. Bake until deep golden brown and firm to touch, about 30 minutes (logs will spread during baking). Transfer baking sheet to rack and cool logs 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F.
Using serrated knife, cut logs crosswise into 1/2-inch-thick slices. Arrange slices cut side down on baking sheet. Bake until deep golden on top, about 12 minutes. Turn biscotti over and bake until deep golden, about 12 minutes. Transfer biscotti to rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Lemon Hazelnut Cookie Sandwiches 
1 cup all purpose flour
1/2 cup toasted hazelnuts (about 2 ounces)
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup powdered sugar
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 tablespoons lemon marmalade
Additional powdered sugar

Finely grind flour, nuts, salt and cinnamon in processor. Using electric mixer beat butter and 1/2 cup sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in lemon peel and vanilla. Add dry ingredients to butter mixture and mix just until dough holds together. Gather dough into ball; flatten into disk. Wrap in plastic and chill until firm, about 1 hour.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Butter large baking sheet. Roll out dough on lightly floured surface to 1/4-inch thickness. Using 3-inch round cookie cutter, cut out cookies. Gather scraps into ball. Reroll dough to 1/4-inch thickness. Cut out additional cookies, forming total of 12. Transfer rounds to prepared sheet. Using 1-inch round cookie cutter, cut out center of 6 cookies and remove. (Can be baked for snacks.)
Bake cookies until golden, about 20 minutes. Transfer sheet to rack and cool 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool completely.
Spread 1 1/2 teaspoons marmalade evenly over each cookie without a hole, leaving 1/8-inch border uncovered. Sift additional powdered sugar over cookies with holes; arrange powdered sugar side up atop jam-covered cookies. (Can be prepared up to 2 days ahead. Store cookie sandwiches in single layer in airtight container at room temperature.)

Chocolate Lovers' Honey Cake 
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate
2 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 large eggs
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
3/4 cup honey
2/3 cup light-brown sugar
1/2 cup orange juice
1 cup mini chocolate chips

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees and grease a 9- by 5-inch loaf pan. Melt the unsweetened chocolate over simmering water in a double boiler or microwave for 1 minute. Set aside.
Sift into a mixing bowl the flour, baking soda, baking powder, and cinnamon and set aside.
In a large bowl, beat the eggs and add the oil and honey. Then add the brown sugar and melted chocolate.
Alternately mix in the dry ingredients and the orange juice. Stir in 3/4 cup of the chocolate chips.
Pour the batter into the loaf pan. Sprinkle the remaining 1/4 cup chocolate chips over the top.
Bake on the lower rack of the oven for 50-55 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Cool on a rack for about 15 minutes. Gently run a knife around the edges to loosen the cake, then remove it from the pan.

Individual Raspberry and Banana Trifles 
2 12-ounce bags frozen unsweetened raspberries, thawed
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons potato starch
2 3/4 cups liquid nondairy creamer
6 large egg yolks
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted pareve margarine, diced
3 tablespoons frozen orange juice concentrate, thawed
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon grated orange peel
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
1/2 cup matzo cake meal
1/2 cup potato starch
8 large eggs, separated
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon coarse salt
6 ripe bananas, peeled, thinly sliced
Fresh mint sprigs (optional)
Lemon twists (optional)
Additional banana slices (optional)

Combine raspberries and their juices and sugar in blender. Puree until sugar dissolves. Strain sauce into bowl. Cover and refrigerate.
Combine sugar and potato starch in heavy large saucepan; whisk to blend. Gradually add nondairy creamer, whisking until well blended. Whisk in egg yolks, lemon peel and lemon juice. Add margarine. Whisk over medium-high heat until custard is thick and smooth and just begins to bubble, about 9 minutes. Transfer to bowl. Refrigerate uncovered until cold, about 4 hours; then cover and keep chilled.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine orange juice concentrate, lemon juice and both peels in small bowl; whisk to blend. Combine cake meal and potato starch in medium bowl; whisk to blend.
Using handheld electric mixer, beat egg yolks and 3/4 cup sugar in large bowl until thick about 1 minute. Beat in orange concentrate mixture, then dry ingredients. Using clean dry beaters, beat whites and salt in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 3/4 cup sugar, beating until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into yolk mixture in 3 additions.
Transfer batter to ungreased 10-inch-diameter angel food cake pan with 4-inch-high sides. Bake cake until golden brown and tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Immediately invert center tube of cake pan onto narrow-neck bottle. Cool cake completely. (Sauce, custard and cake can be made 1 day ahead. Keep sauce and custard chilled. Cover cake in pan; store at room temperature.)
Cut cake from pan. Cut cake into twelve 1-inch-thick slices (reserve remaining for another use.) Trim crusts. Cut each slice into 6 squares. Place 3 banana slices in each of twelve 1- to 1 1/4-cup stemmed glasses. Spoon 1 tablespoon sauce over. Top with 3 cake pieces, 2 tablespoons custard, 4 banana slices and 1 1/2 tablespoons sauce. Repeat layering with cake, custard, banana and sauce. Garnish with mint, lemon and additional banana slices, if desired. Chill up to 6 hours.

Ginger Shortbread Cookies 
2 1/3 cups unbleached all purpose flour
3/4 cup powdered sugar
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup coarsely chopped crystallized ginger (about 1 1/2 ounces)
1 tablespoon sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Additional powdered sugar (optional)

Combine flour, 3/4 cup powdered sugar, ground ginger and salt in medium bowl. Combine crystallized ginger and 1 tablespoon sugar on work surface; chop finely.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until light. Add lemon peel and extracts. Beat in crystallized ginger mixture. Beat dry ingredients into butter mixture in 4 additions.
Transfer dough to floured work surface. Divide dough in half. Roll each half into 6-inch log. Shape each log into 2x1x6-inch-long rectangular log. Wrap in plastic and refrigerate 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 large baking sheets. Cut each dough log into 1/3-inch-thick cookies. Transfer cookies to prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart (cookies will spread slightly during baking). Bake cookies until edges are pale golden, about 24 minutes. Cool cookies on baking sheets 3 minutes. Using metal spatula, transfer cookies to racks. Sift additional powdered sugar over warm cookies, if desired. Cool completely. (Can be made ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature up to 1 week.)

Strawberry-Rhubarb Shortcakes 
4 cups 3/4-inch-thick slices fresh rhubarb (about 1 1/2 pounds)
3/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons water
2 tablespoons strawberry preserves
1 teaspoon minced orange peel
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1 1-pint basket strawberries, hulled, thickly sliced
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
6 tablespoons sugar
4 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 tablespoons minced orange peel (orange part only)
1/4 teaspoon salt
9 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
3/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons chilled whipping cream
2 cups chilled whipping cream, sweetened, softly whipped
Mint sprigs

Combine first 5 ingredients in heavy large saucepan or Dutch oven. Bring to boil over medium heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Reduce heat to medium-low; cover and simmer until rhubarb is tender but some pieces remain intact, about 7 minutes. Remove from heat and add allspice. Cool completely. Stir in strawberries. Cover and refrigerate until well chilled, at least 3 hours or overnight.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 400 degrees F. Combine first 5 ingredients in medium bowl. Add butter and cut in using pastry blender or rub with fingertips until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add 3/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons cream and stir until dough comes together.
Turn out dough onto lightly floured work surface and knead until smooth, about 6 turns. Flatten dough to 3/4-inch-thick round. Cut out rounds using 2 3/4-inch-diameter plain or scalloped cookie cutter. Gather dough scraps and shape into 3/4-inch-thick round. Cut out additional dough rounds.
Transfer rounds to heavy large ungreased baking sheet. Bake until biscuits are puffed and golden, about 23 minutes. Transfer biscuits to rack and cool slightly. (Can be prepared 2 hours ahead. Rewarm biscuits in 350 degrees F. oven just until heated through, about 5 minutes.)
Cut biscuits in half. Place 1 bottom half on each plate. Spoon 1/4 cup compote over each. Top with large spoonful sweetened compote, then more whipped cream. Cover with biscuits tops. Garnish with mint sprigs and serve.

White Chocolate Easter Cake with Strawberries 
3/4 cup half and half
3 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), chopped
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup unsalted pistachio nuts
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
3 large egg yolks
5 large egg whites
3 1-pint baskets strawberries
1 7-ounce package marzipan
2 tablespoons plus 1/4 cup powdered sugar
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
Makes about 3 cups
1 1/4 cups half and half
3/4 cup unsalted pistachio nuts
1/2 cup sugar
4 large egg yolks
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high-sides.
Bring half and half to simmer in small saucepan. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and vanilla and stir until smooth; cool to room temperature.
Finely grind pistachios with flour and baking powder in processor. Using electric mixer, beat butter and 3/4 cup sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Add yolks 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in flour mixture alternately with white chocolate mixture in 2 additions each. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar, beating until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into batter in 2 additions.
Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn out cakes onto racks; cool completely.
Hull and slice 2 baskets strawberries. Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 1 cup buttercream over. Arrange enough berry slices over to cover. Spread 1 cup buttercream over. Arrange another layer of sliced berries over to cover. Spread thin layer of buttercream over second cake layer and place cake, buttercream side down, atop berries. Press gently to adhere. Spread remaining buttercream over top and sides of cake. Chill cake until buttercream is firm, about 1 hour.
Knead marzipan in medium bowl to soften. Shape marzipan into disk. Dust work surface with 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. Roll out marzipan disk on powdered sugar to 9 1/2-round. Place on cake; press to adhere to top and gently press overhang onto sides of cake.
Beat whipping cream and remaining 1/4 cup powdered sugar in large bowl to firm peaks. Transfer to large pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Pipe cream in side-by-side columns up sides of cake. Pipe border of rosettes around top edge of cake. Refrigerate cake until cold, at least 2 hours. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and keep refrigerated. Let stand at room temperature 30 minutes before continuing.)
Arrange remaining whole strawberries in center of cake.
Bring half and half and pistachios to boil in heavy small saucepan. Remove from heat; cover and let stand 1 hour. Whisk sugar, yolks and flour in medium bowl to blend. Bring half and half mixture to simmer; gradually whisk into yolk mixture. Return to same saucepan; stir over medium heat until mixture bubbles thickly, about 5 minutes. Mix in vanilla. Transfer to processor; blend until nuts are very finely chopped. Transfer pistachio pastry cream to bowl. Cover and cool to room temperature, about 2 hours.
Using electric mixer, beat unsalted butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add pastry cream by 1/4 cupfuls, beating well after each addition. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Bring to room temperature before using.)

Five-Layer Orange Cream Cake 
4 tablespoons water
1 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
3/4 cup orange juice
1/3 cup sugar
1 tablespoon plus 2 teaspoons cornstarch
2 large egg yolks
1 teaspoon grated orange peel
1 1/4 cups chilled whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 12-ounce purchased pound cake, cut horizontally into 5 layers
Thin strips of orange peel

Place 2 tablespoon water in small bowl. Sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand until softened, about 10 minutes.
Combine juice and sugar in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium heater until sugar dissolves. Whisk cornstarch and 3 tablespoons water in medium bowl until blended. Whisk in egg yolks. Gradually whisk half of hot juice mixture into egg mixture. Return mixture to same saucepan. Stir over medium heat until mixture boils and thickens, about 2 minutes. Strain into large bowl. Add gelatin mixture and 1 teaspoon grated peel; stir until gelatin dissolves. Press plastic onto surface of custard; chill until cool but not set, about 30 minutes.
Beat cream and vanilla in another bowl until stiff peaks form. Whisk custard until smooth. Fold 1/2 cup whipped cream into custard. Gently fold remaining cream into custard in 2 additions.
Place bottom cake layer on platter. Place strips of waxed paper under edges of cake to protect platter. Spread 1/2 cup orange cream over cake. Repeat layering with remaining cake layers and 1 1/2 cups orange cream, using 1/2 cup cream per layer and ending with top cake layer. Spread remaining orange cream over top and sides of cake. Sprinkle thin strips of orange peel down center of cake. Remove waxed paper.(Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and chill.)

Pine Nut Crescents 
3/4 cup blanched slivered almonds
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
Pinch of salt
2 large egg whites
1 1/4 cups pine nuts (about 6 ounces)

Butter and lightly flour heavy large baking sheet. Finely grind almonds in processor. Add sugar, powdered sugar, flour and salt; process until well blended. Add egg whites; process until smooth dough forms (dough will be very sticky).
Spread pine nuts on floured surface. Using floured hands, form dough into 1-inch balls. Roll balls in pine nuts, pressing slightly to adhere. Form balls into crescents. Transfer to prepared baking sheet, spacing 1 inch apart. Let cookies stand at room temperature at least 1 hour and up to 2 hours before baking.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Bake cookies until golden brown, about 18 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Kirsch and Dried Cherry Kugelhupf 
1 cup dried tart cherries
1/2 cup golden raisins
4 tablespoons kirsch (clear cherry brandy)
1/4 cup warm water (105 degrees F. to 115 degrees F.)
Pinch of sugar
2 envelopes dry yeast
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
4 large egg yolks
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon almond extract
1 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup lukewarm milk
3 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 cup almonds, toasted finely chopped
1 cup powdered sugar
2 tablespoons kirsch
2 teaspoons milk

Combine first 3 ingredients in medium bowl. Let stand 15 minutes.
Combine 1/4 cup warm water and pinch of sugar in bowl. Sprinkle yeast over; stir to dissolve. Let stand 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, in large mixer bowl fitted with dough hook, beat 6 tablespoons butter, 3/4 cup sugar, yolks, peel, vanilla, almond extract and salt until well blended. Add yeast mixture, milk and 1 cup flour and beat until smooth. Beat in dried fruits and their soaking liquid. Gradually add remaining 2 1/2 cups flour and beat until very soft dough forms, about 6 minutes. Let stand 15 minutes.
Butter 12-cup kugelhupf or Bundt pan with 2 tablespoons butter. Add almonds; tilt pan to coat bottom and sides. Spoon dough into pan. Cover with plastic and towel. Let dough rise in warm place until within 1 inch of top of pan, about 2 1/2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Bake kugelhupf until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Let stand 10 minutes. Turn out onto rack; cool completely.
Combine sugar and kirsch in bowl. Add milk; stir. Spoon over kugelhupf.

Coconut Sour Cream Cake 
1 1/4 cups sour cream
1 cup canned cream of coconut (such as Coco López)
3 large eggs
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 18.25-ounce box white cake mix
2 cups flaked sweetened coconut, toasted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 13x9x2-inch baking pan. Dust pan with flour. Combine 1 cup sour cream, 3/4 cup cream of coconut, eggs, vegetable oil and fresh lemon juice in large bowl and whisk to blend. Add white cake mix and blend well. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until top is golden brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes.
Meanwhile, blend remaining 1/4 cup sour cream and remaining 1/4 cup cream of coconut in small bowl. Spread mixture evenly over warm cake. Return cake to oven; bake 5 minutes longer. Sprinkle coconut over. Place pan on rack and cool cake completely.

Chocolate Truffle Cake 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 cup packed light brown sugar
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3/4 cup finely chopped walnuts
1 large egg
2 teaspoons vanilla
1 1/2 cups walnuts
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
1 cup packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup honey
1/4 cup heavy cream
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1 1/4 cups heavy cream
1 pound fine-quality bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and butter a 9-inch springform pan.
In a small saucepan melt butter and stir in cocoa powder. Remove pan from heat and add brown sugar, stirring until dissolved. Stir in flour, walnuts, egg, and vanilla and spread batter evenly in springform pan. Bake base in middle of oven 10 minutes, or just until firm, and transfer to a rack to cool.
Arrange walnuts in one layer on top of base. In a small heavy saucepan combine butter, brown sugar, and honey and cook over moderate heat, stirring occasionally, 8 to 10 minutes, or until a candy thermometer registers 280 degrees F. Remove pan from heat and add cream, vanilla, and lemon juice, stirring until smooth. Cool mixture to room temperature and pour over walnuts, spreading evenly.
In a saucepan bring cream just to a boil. Finely chop chocolate. Put chocolate in a metal bowl and pour hot cream over it, stirring until smooth. Cool ganache to room temperature and beat with an electric mixer until it just holds soft peaks (do not overbeat or it will become grainy).
Spread ganache evenly over filling. Chill cake, covered, at least 4 hours and up to 1 day.
Run a thin knife around edge of cake and remove side of pan. With a large spatula transfer cake to a plate and let stand at room temperature 30 minutes before serving.

Butterscotch Almond Cheesecake 
1 cup unbleached all purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
1/4 cup almonds, toasted
1/4 teaspoon salt
7 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 egg yolk
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/4 cup Scotch whisky
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
4 large eggs
2 cups sour cream
2 cups sugar
2/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon Scotch whisky
2/3 cup whipping cream
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
3/4 cup very coarsely chopped toasted almonds (about 3 1/2 ounces)
Sweetened whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line bottom of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 3-inch-high sides with foil. Butter and flour foil. Blend first 4 ingredients in processor until nuts are finely chopped. Add butter, yolk and extract and blend until mixture begins to gather together. Press onto bottom (not sides) of prepared pan. Bake until golden about 25 minutes. Transfer to rack. Cool 10 minutes. Release cake pan sides from crust. Gently turn out crust onto rack; peel off foil and cool. Place crust back into pan and reattach pan sides. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, 1 1/4 cups sugar, Scotch and vanilla in large bowl until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until combined. Pour into crust-lined pan. Bake cheesecake until set at edges but center 3-inch area still moves slightly when pan is shaken, about 50 minutes. Place on rack; cool 10 minutes.
Mix sour cream with remaining 1/4 cup sugar. Spoon sour cream mixture over cheesecake. Bake 10 minutes. Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool 10 minutes. Run small sharp knife around top edge of pan to loosen cake. Chill overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead.)
Stir sugar and 2/3 cup Scotch in heavy large saucepan over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and boil without stirring until syrup turns golden, occasionally brushing down sides of pan with pastry brush dipped into water and swirling pan. Add 2/3 cup cream and butter (mixture will bubble) and stir until smooth. Cool 10 minutes. Stir in 1 tablespoon Scotch. Let stand until cool but still pourable, about 2 hours. Mix in 1/2 cup almonds.
Spoon all but 1/2 cup butterscotch topping over cheesecake (reserve remainder for another use). Sprinkle with remaining 1/4 cup chopped almonds. Refrigerate up to 1 hour.
Run sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Spoon cream into pastry bag fitted with star tip. Pipe cream over top edge of cake.

Double-Nut Maple Bars 
1 1/4 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
Pinch of salt
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 large egg yolk
1 tablespoon whole milk
1/3 cup pure maple syrup
1/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/4 cup whipping cream
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
3/4 cup pecans, toasted, coarsely chopped
3/4 cup walnuts, toasted, coarsely chopped
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 8 x 8 x 2-inch metal baking pan. Combine flour, sugar and salt in processor and blend. Add butter and process until mixture resembles coarse meal. Combine egg yolk and milk in small bowl. Drizzle egg mixture into processor; process using on/off turns just until dough clumps together but is still dry. Transfer dough crumbs to prepared pan. Press crumbs onto bottom and halfway up sides of pan. Bake until crust is set and pale golden, about 25 minutes. Transfer crust to rack and cool.
Combine maple syrup, sugar, cream and butter in heavy medium saucepan. Bring mixture to boil. Boil 2 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in nuts and vanilla.
Pour filling over crust, spreading nuts evenly bake until filling bubbles all over, about 8 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool completely. Cut into bars and serve at room temperature. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Store cookies between sheets of wax paper in airtight container at room temperature.)

Turtle Swirl Cheesecake 
1 9-ounce package chocolate wafer cookies
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
5 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 tablespoons whipping cream
4 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup purchased butterscotch caramel fudge sauce
1/2 cup (about) whole toasted pecans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Finely grind cookies in processor. Blend in butter. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Wrap outside of springform pan with foil.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add sugar and beat until smooth. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Mix in vanilla extract.
Bring cream to simmer in heavy small saucepan. Reduce heat to low. Add chocolate and stir until mixture is melted and smooth. Remove from heat.
Pour half of cream cheese mixture into crust. Spoon half of chocolate mixture over by tablespoons, spacing evenly. Using tip of knife, swirl chocolate mixture into filling. Spoon remaining cream cheese mixture over. Spoon remaining chocolate mixture over by tablespoons. Swirl into filling. Bake until sides are set and center moves slightly when pan is shaken, about 1 hour 5 minutes. (Cake may crack.) Cool in pan on rack. Chill overnight.
Using small knife, cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Drizzle 1/4 cup caramel sauce over top of cake. Garnish with whole pecans. Pass remaining sauce separately.

Fudgy Hazelnut Brownies with Marbled Chocolate Glaze 
2 1/2 cups semisweet chocolate chips
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
1 cup sugar
4 large eggs
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1 cup coarsely chopped toasted hazelnuts
12 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
3 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 15 x 10 x 1-inch jelly-roll pan. Stir chocolate and butter in heavy medium saucepan over medium-low heat until melted and smooth. Remove from heat. Combine sugar, eggs and salt in heavy large saucepan. Whisk constantly over low heat just until sugar dissolves, about 5 minutes (do not boil). Remove from heat. Whisk in chocolate mixture and vanilla. Whisk in flour and nuts. Spread batter in pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out with some moist crumbs still attached, about 30 minutes. Cool brownies completely in pan on rack.
Stir semisweet chocolate in top of double boiler over barely simmering water until smooth. Remove from over water. Spread over brownie.
Stir white chocolate in top of double boiler over barely simmering water until smooth. Spoon into resealable plastic bag. Cut very tip off 1 corner of bag. Pipe lines of white chocolate crosswise atop brownie, spacing lines 1 inch apart. Draw a toothpick lengthwise across lines, alternating direction from left to right and right to left, to create marbled pattern. Chill just until firm enough to cut, about 30 minutes. Cut into small squares. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Refrigerate in single layer in airtight containers. Bring to room temperature before serving.)

Raspberry Frozen Yogurt Cake with Raspberry Amaretto Sauce 
2 whole large eggs
1 large egg yolk
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons cake flour (not self-rising)
1 1/4 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup milk
1/4 cup Amaretto (almond-flavored liqueur)
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
1 pint raspberries (about 2 1/2 cups)
1/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons water
2 pints vanilla frozen yogurt, softened
Garnish: 1/2 pint raspberries (about 1 cup) and 1/2 cup sliced almonds, toasted until golden and cooled
Accompaniment: raspberry Amaretto sauce
2 pints raspberries (about 3 3/4 cups)
3/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons Amaretto (almond-flavored liqueur)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line bottom of a buttered 9- by 2-inch springform pan with a round of wax paper or parchment and butter paper. Dust pan with flour, knocking out excess.
In a bowl whisk together whole eggs and yolk. Into another bowl sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. In a glass measuring cup stir together milk and Amaretto. In a bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed beat butter 1 minute and beat in sugar in a steady stream, scraping bowl occasionally, until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Beat in egg, a little at a time, beating well after each addition, until pale and fluffy. Stir in flour mixture in 3 batches alternately with milk mixture, beginning and ending with flour mixture and stirring until smooth after each addition.
Turn batter into pan, smoothing top, and bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cake layer in pan on a rack 10 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge of pan and remove side of pan. Invert cake layer onto rack. Remove paper carefully and cool cake completely. With a long serrated knife halve cake horizontally. Clean springform pan and line with 2 sheets plastic wrap, leaving at least a 1-inch overhang. Put bottom half of cake, cut side up, in pan.
In a food processor purée raspberries with sugar and water and force through a fine sieve into a large bowl. Add frozen yogurt and stir until purée is well incorporated.
Working quickly, spoon about half of frozen yogurt over cake in pan, spreading evenly. Top with other half of cake layer, cut side down, and spoon remaining frozen yogurt on top, spreading evenly.
Arrange raspberries decoratively on top of cake, pushing slightly into frozen yogurt, and sprinkle almonds over top of cake. Freeze cake, covered, at least until frozen hard, about 6 hours, and up to 1 week.
Let cake soften in refrigerator at least 30 minutes and up to 45 minutes before serving. Remove cake from pan, discarding plastic wrap. Serve cake with sauce.
In a food processor purée raspberries with sugar and Amaretto and force through a fine sieve into a bowl. Sauce may be made 3 days ahead and chilled, covered. Makes about 1 1/2 cups.

Lindy's — or Is It Reuben's? — Cheesecake 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon grated lemon rind
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 egg yolk
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, chilled and cut into 1/4-inch bits
1 1/4 pounds softened cream cheese
3/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons flour
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon rind
1 teaspoon grated orange rind
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 eggs plus 1 egg yolk
2 tablespoons heavy cream

1. To make the crust, place the flour, sugar, grated lemon rind, vanilla extract, egg yolk, and butter in a large mixing bowl. With your fingertips, rub the ingredients together until they are well mixed and can be gathered into a ball. Dust with a little flour, wrap in waxed paper, and refrigerate for at least 1 hour.
2. Place the chilled dough in an ungreased 9-inch spring-form pan. With your hands, pat and spread the dough evenly over the bottom and about 2 inches up the side of the pan. Bake in the center of a preheated 450-degree oven for 10 minutes. Remove and set aside to cool to room temperature.
3. Lower the oven temperature to 200 degrees. To make the filling, place the cream cheese in a large mixing bowl and beat vigorously with a wooden spoon until it is creamy and smooth. Beat in the sugar, a few tablespoons at a time, and, when it is well incorporated, beat in the flour, lemon and orange rinds, vanilla extract, eggs and egg yolk, and heavy cream.
4. Pour the filling into the cooled cookie crust and bake in the center of the oven for 1 hour. Then remove from the oven and set aside to cool in the pan. Then demold.
5. Refrigerate the cheesecake for at least 3 hours before serving.

Capri Chocolate Torte 
1 1/2 cups walnuts (about 7 ounces)
1/3 cup all purpose flour
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
14 tablespoons sugar
7 large eggs, separated, room temperature
Powdered sugar

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 3-inch-high sides. Line bottom with waxed paper round. Finely grind walnuts with flour in processor; set aside. Stir chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water until melted and smooth. Remove chocolate from over water. Cool chocolate slightly.
Using electric mixer, beat butter and 7 tablespoons sugar in large bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in melted chocolate. Add yolks 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Continue beating until smooth and light, about 3 minutes. Mix in ground walnut mixture.
Using electric mixer fitted with clean dry beaters, beat whites in another large bowl until beginning to form soft peaks. Gradually add remaining 7 tablespoons sugar and beat to soft peaks. Stir 1/4 of whites into batter to lighten. Fold in remaining whites.
Pour batter into prepared pan; smooth top. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out with some moist crumbs attached, about 40 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 10 minutes. Run sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides and cool cake completely (cake may fall as it cools). (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.)
Transfer cake to platter. Sift powdered sugar over cake. Cut into wedges and serve.

Toasted Pound Cake with Vanilla Ice Cream and Chocolate-Honey Sauce 
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
3 tablespoons honey
1 12-ounce pound cake, cut into 12 slices
1/3 cup Grand Marnier or other orange liqueur
Vanilla ice cream
1/2 cup coarsely chopped toasted pecans
2 1/2 teaspoons grated orange peel

Stir chocolate, butter and honey in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted and smooth. (Sauce can be prepared 3 days ahead. Cool completely. Cover and refrigerate. Stir in top of double boiler until heated through before using.)
Working in batches, toast pound cake slices in electric toaster or on barbecue grill until golden. Generously brush both sides of cake slices with liqueur. Cut cake slices diagonally in half, forming triangles.
Drizzle warm chocolate-honey sauce on plates. Scoop ice cream atop sauce. Place 3 cake triangles on each plate. Sprinkle with pecans and orange peel and serve.

Orange Chiffon Cake 
2 1/4 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 tablespoon double-acting baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup vegetable oil
7 large egg yolks
3/4 cup fresh orange juice
2 tablespoons freshly grated orange zest
2 teaspoons vanilla
9 large egg whites
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
2 cups well-chilled heavy cream
3 tablespoons Grand Marnier or other orange-flavored liqueur
2 teaspoons freshly grated orange zest
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon orange-flower water (available at specialty foods shops), or to taste, if desired
candied mimosa balls and candied violets (both available at specialty foods shops) for garnish if desired
fresh orange sections, membranes discarded, for garnish if desired

Into a large bowl sift together the flour, 3/4 cup of the sugar, the baking powder, and the salt. In a bowl whisk together the oil, the egg yolks, the orange juice, the zest, and the vanilla and whisk the mixture into the flour mixture, whisking until the batter is smooth. In the large bowl of an electric mixer beat the egg whites with a pinch of salt until they are foamy, add the cream of tartar, and beat the whites until they hold stiff peaks. Add the remaining 3/4 cup sugar, a little at a time, and beat the whites until they hold stiff glossy peaks. Stir one third of the whites into the batter to lighten it and fold in the remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Spoon the batter into an ungreased 10-inch tube pan, 4 inches deep, with feet and a removable bottom, and bake the cake in the middle of a preheated 325 degrees F. oven for 1 hour, or until a tester comes out clean. Invert the pan immediately onto a rack and let the cake cool completely in the pan upside down on the rack. Run a long thin knife around the outer and tube edges of the pan and turn the cake out of the pan onto the rack. Using a serrated knife cut the cake in half horizontally.
In a large bowl, chilled, with an electric mixer beat together the cream, the Grand Marnier, the zest, the sugar, the orange-flower water, and a pinch of salt until the mixture holds stiff peaks.
Transfer the bottom layer of the cake to a platter, spread some of the frosting on it, and top it with the remaining layer. Spread the remaining frosting on the top layer and side of the cake and garnish the cake with the candied mimosa balls, the candied violets, and the orange sections.

Chocolate-Cashew Torte 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/3 cups sugar
6 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/3 cups cold water
2/3 cup corn oil
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup whipping cream
1 pound bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate,chopped
1 3/4 cups chopped roasted unsalted cashews

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour three 9-inch round cake pans. Sift flour, sugar, cocoa powder, baking soda and salt into medium bowl. Mix cold water, corn oil and vanilla extract in large bowl. Whisk in dry ingredients. Divide batter among prepared pans, spreading with spatula (batter will be about 1/4 inch high). Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 10 minutes (cakes will be scant 1/4 inch high). Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks; cool completely.
Bring whipping cream to simmer in heavy large saucepan. Reduce heat to low. Add 1 pound chopped chocolate and whisk until melted and smooth. Cool icing until thick enough to spread, about 30 minutes.
Place 1 cake layer on rack set over baking sheet. Spread 3/4 cup icing over cake. Sprinkle with 1/2 cup chopped cashews. Top with second cake layer. Spread 3/4 cup icing over. Sprinkle with 1/2 cup cashews. Top with third cake layer. Chill cake until icing sets, about 1 hour.
Stir remaining icing in saucepan over low heat just until pourable. Pour icing over cake, allowing icing to run down sides. Smooth cake sides with rubber spatula. Press remaining 3/4 cup chopped cashews onto sides of cake. Refrigerate until icing sets, about 1 hour. (Cake can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Let cake stand 2 hours at room temperature before serving.)

Double-Peanut Double-Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup chunky or creamy peanut butter
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup (6 ounces) semisweet chocolate chips
1 cup (6 ounces) peanut-butter chips

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
In a bowl whisk together flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, and baking powder. In another bowl with an electric mixer cream butter, peanut butter, and sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in flour mixture and stir in chocolate chips and peanut-butter chips.
Drop dough by level tablespoons 2 inches apart onto buttered baking sheets and bake cookies in batches in middle of oven 10 minutes. Cool cookies on racks.
Cookies keep in airtight containers 5 days.

Viennese Linzertorte Cake 
1 cup hazelnuts, toasted
2 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons Chinese five-spice powder*
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 large egg yolks
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon almond extract
1 1/4 cups whole milk
5 large egg whites, room temperature
6 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's)
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
9 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
21/4 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1 cup raspberry preserves, stirred to loosen
1 1/2 cups finely chopped toasted hazelnuts
*A blend of ground anise, cinnamon, star anise, cloves and ginger available in the spice section of most supermarkets.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 15 x 10 x 1-inch jelly roll pan. Finely grind nuts with flour in processor. Transfer to medium bowl. Mix in baking powder, spices and salt. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in yolks and extracts. On low speed, add dry ingredients alternately with milk, beating just until combined (batter will be thick). Using clean dry beaters, beat whites in another large bowl until stiff peaks form. Fold 1/3 of whites into batter to lighten. Fold in remaining whites.
Spread batter in prepared pan; smooth top. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cake on rack 20 minutes. Run sharp knife around cake to loosen. Turn cake out onto foil-lined rack; cool.
Stir white chocolate in top of double boiler over barely simmering water until melted. Cool to barely lukewarm. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until smooth. Beat in white chocolate, then sugar and extracts (if frosting is too soft, chill until firm enough to spread).
Using serrated knife, cut cake crosswise into three 5x10-inch rectangles. Place 1 cake rectangle on platter. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over. Drizzle 1/4 cup preserves over; spread over frosting. Top with second cake. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over. Drizzle 1/4 cup preserves over; spread over frosting. Top with third cake. Spoon 1 1/4 cups frosting into pastry bag fitted with 1/4-inch star tip. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Drizzle remaining preserves over top of cake; spread evenly to cover top. Refrigerate cake just until frosting begins to firm, about 20 minutes.
Pipe frosting in 7 diagonal lines atop cake, spacing apart. Repeat in opposite direction, piping 6 lines and forming lattice. Press chopped nuts onto sides of cake. Pipe line of frosting around top edge of cake where nuts and preserves meet. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover with dome of foil; chill. Let stand 2 hours at room temperature before serving.)

Chocolate Chunk Chocolate Cookies 
1 18 1/4-ounce package chocolate fudge cake mix
10 ounces semisweet chocolate, broken into small chunks
2 5 1/8-ounce packages chocolate fudge pudding mix
1/2 cup chopped walnuts
1 1/2 cups mayonnaise

Preheat oven 350 degrees F. Combine first 4 ingredients in medium bowl. Mix in mayonnaise. Shape dough by 2 tablespoons into balls. Place on ungreased cookie sheet, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake until tester inserted in centers comes out clean, about 12 minutes. Cool. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Miniature Double-Chocolate Cakes 
3 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
2/3 cup granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
1/2 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips (about 3 ounces)
confectioner's sugar for sifting over cakes

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. and generously butter twenty-four 1/8-cup muffin tins (about 1 1/2 inches across top and 3/4 inch deep).
In a metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water melt chocolate and butter, whisking until smooth. Remove bowl from heat and whisk in granulated sugar and vanilla. Add flour and salt,whisking until just combined, and whisk in eggs, 1 at a time,whisking well after each addition.
Fill each tin about three-fourths full with batter and sprinkle about 1 teaspoon chips over each cake.
Bake cakes in middle of oven 12 to 15 minutes, or until a tester comes out with crumbs adhering to it. Turn cakes out onto a rack and cool. Cakes may be made 4 days ahead and kept in an airtight container at room temperature. Sift confectioners' sugar over cakes.

Chocolate, Walnut and Prune Fudge Torte 
Unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/2 cups diced pitted prunes (about 8 ounces)
1 cup prune juice
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted margarine
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 cup coarsely chopped toasted walnuts (about 4 ounces)
8 large eggs, room temperature
2 large egg yolks
1 3/4 cups sugar
Pinch of salt
1 cup prune juice
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted margarine
10 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
24 walnut halves

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Dust pan with cocoa powder. Tap out excess. Wrap outside of pan with heavy-duty foil.
Place prunes in small bowl. Pour 1 cup prune juice over. Set aside to macerate 15 minutes.
Melt margarine in heavy medium saucepan over low heat. Add chocolate and whisk until smooth. Remove from heat. Add 3/4 cup cocoa powder and whisk until smooth. Mix in walnuts and prune mixture. Cool to lukewarm.
Using electric mixer, beat eggs, yolks, sugar and salt in large bowl at medium speed until well blended and just beginning to foam, about 1 minute. Add chocolate mixture and stir until well blended. Transfer batter to prepared springform pan. Set springform pan into large baking pan. Pour enough hot water into baking pan to come halfway up sides of springform pan. Set baking pan in oven and bake cake until top looks dry and crusty and tester inserted into center comes out with some moist crumbs attached, about 1 hour 5 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 30 minutes. Place in refrigerator uncovered and chill overnight.
Bring juice and margarine to boil in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and whisk until smooth. Cool until thick but still pourable, stirring occasionally, about 45 minutes.
Line baking sheet with foil. Dip walnuts halfway into glaze. Arrange on prepared sheet and refrigerate until chocolate is set.
Meanwhile, using small sharp knife, cut around sides of cake to loosen. Release pan sides. Set cake on rack. Pour glaze over cake and spread to coat completely. Arrange walnuts, chocolate half at outer edge, around top cake. Refrigerate until glaze is completely set, at least 3 hours. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Cover loosely with foil or cake dome and keep refrigerated.) Cut cake into wedges and serve.

Quince Pound Cake 
2 medium quinces (about 1 pound total)
2 cups water
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup honey
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 3/4 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 large egg yolk
3 whole large eggs
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 teaspoon vanilla

Peel, quarter, and core quinces. Cut quarters crosswise into 1/8-inch-thick slices. In a 3-quart heavy saucepan bring quince, water, sugar, honey, lemon juice, and cinnamon to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer mixture, stirring occasionally, 2 1/2 hours (quince will be deep pinkish orange). Drain quince in a large sieve and transfer to paper towels. Pat quince dry and cool. Chill quince, covered, at least 1 hour and up to 3 days.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour a 9- by 2-inch round cake pan, knocking out excess flour.
Into a bowl sift together twice flour, cinnamon, and salt. In another bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugar until combined well. Add yolk and whole eggs, 1 at a time, to butter mixture, beating well after each addition. Beat in half of flour mixture and all of cream until just combined. Add remaining flour mixture and vanilla, beating until just combined. Fold quince slices into batter until combined well and spread batter evenly in pan.
Bake cake in middle of oven 1 1/4 hours, or until a tester comes out clean, and cool in pan on a rack 20 minutes. Turn cake out onto rack and cool completely. (Cake keeps, in an airtight container at room temperature, 4 days.)

Chocolate Pudding Cakes 
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) butter
3/4 cup water
12 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons instant coffee crystals or granules
Pinch of salt
3 tablespoons dark rum
1 1/2 tablespoons vanilla extract
6 large eggs
Vanilla ice cream (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter six 1 1/4-cup soufflé dishes or custard cups. Combine butter and 3/4 cup water in heavy large saucepan over high heat. Bring to boil, stirring until butter melts. Remove from heat. Add chocolate, sugar, coffee and salt; stir until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Stir in rum and vanilla. Beat eggs in large bowl to blend; gradually whisk in chocolate mixture.
Divide chocolate mixture among prepared dishes. Bake until edges of cakes crack slightly but center 2 inches remain soft and glossy, about 25 minutes. Serve cakes warm, topped with vanilla ice cream, if desired.

Zwetschgenkuchen 
1 cup unbleached all-purpose flour
dash of salt
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter or parve margarine
1 large egg yolk
2 teaspoons dried breadcrumbs
1/3 cup apricot preserves
1 tablespoon brandy
2 pounds Italian plums
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
Confectioners' sugar

To make the crust using a food processor, fitted with a metal blade, pulse the flour, salt, and 1 tablespoon of the sugar together. Cut the butter or margarine into small pieces, add to the bowl, and process until crumbly. Add the egg yolk and process until a ball is formed, adding more flour if necessary.
To make the dough by hand, use your fingers or a pastry blender to work the butter or margarine into the flour, salt, and 1 tablespoon sugar until the mixture resembles coarse breadcrumbs. Add the egg yolk and work the dough into a ball.
Remove the dough from the bowl, dust with flour, and pat into a flattened circle. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least a half hour. When you are ready to make the crust, dust your hands and the dough with flour. Place the dough in the center of a 9-inch pie plate and with your fingers gently pat in out to cover the bottom and go up the sides.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F.
Prick the crust with the tines of a fork in several places and prebake the crust on the middle rack for 10 minutes. Remove the curst from the oven and let it cool slightly. Turn the oven down to 350 degrees F.
Pit and cut the plums into fourths. Sprinkle the breadcrumbs on the dough, then spoon the apricot preserves on top and drizzle with the brandy. Place the plum quarters on the crust in a circle so that each overlaps the next and they eventually form a spiral into the center. Sprinkle with cinnamon and the remaining sugar. (At this point, if you wish, you can wrap and freeze the tart, to bake it later. Just remove the pie from the freezer one hour before baking.)
Place the tart in the oven and bake about 30 to 40 minutes or until the crust is golden brown and the plums are juicy. Remove from the oven. Just before serving, sprinkle with confectioners' sugar.

Warm Upside-Down Cheesecake with Pineapple Sauce 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
1/4 cup graham cracker crumbs
6 ounces cream cheese, softened (3/4 cup)
1/4 cup plus 1 teaspoon sugar
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated lemon zest
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
1 large egg
1 teaspoon cornstarch
1/2 cup drained canned crushed pineapple in juice, reserving 1 tablespoon of the juice
1/2 cup water

In a small saucepan melt the butter over moderate heat, stir in the graham cracker crumbs, and divide the mixture among 4 paper-lined 1/2-cup muffin tins, pressing it to form a crust. Bake the crusts in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 5 minutes and let them cool on a rack for 5 minutes.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together the cream cheese, 1/4 cup of the sugar, the zest, and the vanilla until the mixture is combined well, and divide the batter among the tins. Bake the cheesecakes in the middle of the preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 20 minutes, or until they are set, and let them cool on a rack for 10 minutes.
While the cheesecakes are baking, in a small bowl dissolve the cornstarch in the reserved pineapple juice. In the small saucepan simmer the crushed pineapple with the water and the remaining 1 teaspoon sugar for 5 minutes, or until the liquid is reduced to about 2 tablespoons, stir the cornstarch mixture, and stir it into the pineapple mixture. Simmer the sauce, stirring, for 2 minutes, transfer it to a metal bowl set in a larger bowl of ice and cold water, and let it cool, stirring occasionally. Spoon the sauce onto 2 plates and invert the cheesecakes onto the sauce, discarding the paper.

Sugar Cookies 
1/2 cup (1 stick) butter, room temperature
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/2 teaspoon salt
Additional sugar

Using electric mixer, beat butter, oil, 1/2 cup sugar and 1/2 cup powdered sugar in large bowl until well blended. Mix in egg and vanilla. Sift flour, baking soda, cream of tartar and salt over and mix in. Cover mixture and chill until firm, about 30 minutes or up to 1 day.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 heavy large baking sheets. Roll 1 tablespoon dough into ball. Place on prepared sheet. Repeat with remaining dough, spacing balls evenly on sheets. Dip flat-bottomed glass into water to moisten, then dip into sugar and press dough to 1/4-inch-thick round. Repeat with remaining dough balls, dipping bottom of glass into sugar before pressing each.
Bake cookies until light brown, about 15 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool completely.

Chocolate Peanut Butter Chip Cookies 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1 large egg
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
1 2/3 cups (a 10-ounce bag) peanut butter chips
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips (about 8 ounces)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Into a bowl sift together flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugars until light and fluffy and beat in egg and vanilla until combined well. Beat in flour mixture until just combined and stir in chips.
Drop dough by tablespoons about 2 inches apart onto ungreased baking sheets and bake in batches in middle of oven until cookies are just set and begin to crack on top, about 12 minutes. Cool cookies on sheets on racks 1 minute and with a spatula transfer to racks to cool completely.

Lemon Swirl Cheesecake 
6 whole graham crackers (about 3 ounces)
1 cup walnuts, toasted
3 tablespoons butter, melted
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup frozen lemonade concentrate, thawed
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
3/4 cup sour cream
2 large eggs
1 cup sour cream, room temperature
1 11 1/4-ounce jar purchased lemon curd
2/3 cup chilled whipping cream
2 1/4-inch-thick lemon slices, each cut into 4 wedges
8 small mint sprigs

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Finely grind graham crackers in processor. Add nuts; process until coarsely chopped. Add butter and lemon peel; blend using on/off turns just until crumbs are moist. Press crumbs firmly onto bottom (not sides) of 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Bake until crust is set, about 10 minutes. Cool. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, sugar, lemonade concentrate and lemon peel in large bowl until smooth. Beat in 3/4 cup sour cream. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until combined. Pour filling into crust. Bake until center moves only slightly when pan is shaken, about 50 minutes. Transfer cake to rack; cool 5 minutes.
Whisk 1 cup sour cream in small bowl until very smooth. Whisk lemon curd in another small bowl until very smooth.
Run small sharp knife around sides of cake. Starting at outside of edge of cake, spoon small alternating dollops of sour cream and lemon curd side by side in concentric circles atop warm cake, covering cake completely. Gently shake pan to smooth out toppings. Using tip of knife, gently swirl toppings, forming marble design. Chill cake uncovered overnight.
Using electric mixer, beat cream in medium bowl until stiff peaks form. Spoon cream into pastry bag fitted with medium star tip.
Run small sharp knife around sides of cake to loosen. Release pan sides of cake to loosen. Release pan sides. Transfer cake to platter. Pipe cream in decorative scallop border around top edge of cake. Garnish with lemon slices and mint sprigs.

Coconut-Macadamia Crescents 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup powdered sugar, sifted
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 teaspoons coconut extract
2 1/4 cups sifted all purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup chopped, roasted, salted macadamia nuts
1 egg white, beaten to blend
1 cup sweetened shredded coconut
Additional powdered sugar

Using electric mixer, beat butter in medium bowl until light. Gradually beat in 3/4 cup powdered sugar. Beat in extracts. Stir in flour and salt, then macadamia nuts. Refrigerate dough 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line 3 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Pinch off 1 tablespoon dough; shape into 2-inch-long, 1/2-inch-thick crescent. Repeat with remaining dough. Brush crescents with egg white, then dip tops into coconut. Place crescents, coconut side up, on parchment-lined sheets, spacing cookies 1 inch apart. Bake until just barely golden brown, about 20 minutes. Cool cookies on sheets on rack. Sift additional powdered sugar over cookies. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead. Transfer cookies to airtight container and freeze. Bring to room temperature before serving.)

Ginger Biscotti with Pistachios 
2/3 cup whole almonds, toasted (about 3 ounces)
1 3/4 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons grated orange peel
1 large egg yolk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
2/3 cup coarsely chopped pistachios (about 3 ounces)
1 egg, beaten to blend (glaze)

Butter and flour large baking sheet. Finely grind almonds with flour, ginger and baking powder in processor. Beat butter, brown sugar and 1/4 cup sugar in large bowl until well blended. Add orange peel, egg and vanilla and beat well. Add dry ingredients and beat until just blended. Stir in pistachios.
Divide dough in half. Using floured hands, roll each half on lightly floured surface into 1/2-inch log. Arrange logs on prepared sheet, spacing 4 inches apart. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate until cold, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Brush dough logs with some of egg glaze. Sprinkle with 2 teaspoons of sugar. Bake until deep golden brown and firm to touch, about 30 minutes (logs will spread during baking). Transfer baking sheet to rack and cool logs 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F.
Using serrated knife, cut logs crosswise into 1/2-inch-thick slices. Arrange slices cut side down on baking sheet. Bake until deep golden on top, about 12 minutes. Turn biscotti over and bake until deep golden, about 12 minutes. Transfer biscotti to rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Lemon Hazelnut Cookie Sandwiches 
1 cup all purpose flour
1/2 cup toasted hazelnuts (about 2 ounces)
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup powdered sugar
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 tablespoons lemon marmalade
Additional powdered sugar

Finely grind flour, nuts, salt and cinnamon in processor. Using electric mixer beat butter and 1/2 cup sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in lemon peel and vanilla. Add dry ingredients to butter mixture and mix just until dough holds together. Gather dough into ball; flatten into disk. Wrap in plastic and chill until firm, about 1 hour.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Butter large baking sheet. Roll out dough on lightly floured surface to 1/4-inch thickness. Using 3-inch round cookie cutter, cut out cookies. Gather scraps into ball. Reroll dough to 1/4-inch thickness. Cut out additional cookies, forming total of 12. Transfer rounds to prepared sheet. Using 1-inch round cookie cutter, cut out center of 6 cookies and remove. (Can be baked for snacks.)
Bake cookies until golden, about 20 minutes. Transfer sheet to rack and cool 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool completely.
Spread 1 1/2 teaspoons marmalade evenly over each cookie without a hole, leaving 1/8-inch border uncovered. Sift additional powdered sugar over cookies with holes; arrange powdered sugar side up atop jam-covered cookies. (Can be prepared up to 2 days ahead. Store cookie sandwiches in single layer in airtight container at room temperature.)

Chocolate Lovers' Honey Cake 
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate
2 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 large eggs
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
3/4 cup honey
2/3 cup light-brown sugar
1/2 cup orange juice
1 cup mini chocolate chips

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees and grease a 9- by 5-inch loaf pan. Melt the unsweetened chocolate over simmering water in a double boiler or microwave for 1 minute. Set aside.
Sift into a mixing bowl the flour, baking soda, baking powder, and cinnamon and set aside.
In a large bowl, beat the eggs and add the oil and honey. Then add the brown sugar and melted chocolate.
Alternately mix in the dry ingredients and the orange juice. Stir in 3/4 cup of the chocolate chips.
Pour the batter into the loaf pan. Sprinkle the remaining 1/4 cup chocolate chips over the top.
Bake on the lower rack of the oven for 50-55 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Cool on a rack for about 15 minutes. Gently run a knife around the edges to loosen the cake, then remove it from the pan.

Ginger Shortbread Cookies 
2 1/3 cups unbleached all purpose flour
3/4 cup powdered sugar
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup coarsely chopped crystallized ginger (about 1 1/2 ounces)
1 tablespoon sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Additional powdered sugar (optional)

Combine flour, 3/4 cup powdered sugar, ground ginger and salt in medium bowl. Combine crystallized ginger and 1 tablespoon sugar on work surface; chop finely.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until light. Add lemon peel and extracts. Beat in crystallized ginger mixture. Beat dry ingredients into butter mixture in 4 additions.
Transfer dough to floured work surface. Divide dough in half. Roll each half into 6-inch log. Shape each log into 2x1x6-inch-long rectangular log. Wrap in plastic and refrigerate 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 large baking sheets. Cut each dough log into 1/3-inch-thick cookies. Transfer cookies to prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart (cookies will spread slightly during baking). Bake cookies until edges are pale golden, about 24 minutes. Cool cookies on baking sheets 3 minutes. Using metal spatula, transfer cookies to racks. Sift additional powdered sugar over warm cookies, if desired. Cool completely. (Can be made ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature up to 1 week.)

Rum-Raisin Pound Cake 
1 1/2 cups brown raisins
2 1/4 cups sifted all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 2/3 cups sugar
5 large eggs
7 tablespoons dark rum
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup powdered sugar
2 teaspoons whipping cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 12-cup Bundt pan. Toss raisins with 2 tablespoons flour in small bowl. Combine remaining flour, baking powder and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until light. Add 1 2/3 cups sugar and beat until fluffy. Add eggs 2 at a time, beating after each addition until well blended. Beat in 6 tablespoons rum and vanilla. Mix in flour mixture. Fold in raisin mixture. Spoon batter into prepared pan.
Bake cake until top is golden and tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool in pan on rack 10 minutes. Turn out cake onto rack and cool completely.
Stir powdered sugar and 1 tablespoon rum in bowl until smooth. Mix in cream. Spoon over cake. Let stand until glaze is set, about 30 minutes.

Strawberry-Rhubarb Shortcakes 
4 cups 3/4-inch-thick slices fresh rhubarb (about 1 1/2 pounds)
3/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons water
2 tablespoons strawberry preserves
1 teaspoon minced orange peel
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1 1-pint basket strawberries, hulled, thickly sliced
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
6 tablespoons sugar
4 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 tablespoons minced orange peel (orange part only)
1/4 teaspoon salt
9 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
3/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons chilled whipping cream
2 cups chilled whipping cream, sweetened, softly whipped
Mint sprigs

Combine first 5 ingredients in heavy large saucepan or Dutch oven. Bring to boil over medium heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Reduce heat to medium-low; cover and simmer until rhubarb is tender but some pieces remain intact, about 7 minutes. Remove from heat and add allspice. Cool completely. Stir in strawberries. Cover and refrigerate until well chilled, at least 3 hours or overnight.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 400 degrees F. Combine first 5 ingredients in medium bowl. Add butter and cut in using pastry blender or rub with fingertips until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add 3/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons cream and stir until dough comes together.
Turn out dough onto lightly floured work surface and knead until smooth, about 6 turns. Flatten dough to 3/4-inch-thick round. Cut out rounds using 2 3/4-inch-diameter plain or scalloped cookie cutter. Gather dough scraps and shape into 3/4-inch-thick round. Cut out additional dough rounds.
Transfer rounds to heavy large ungreased baking sheet. Bake until biscuits are puffed and golden, about 23 minutes. Transfer biscuits to rack and cool slightly. (Can be prepared 2 hours ahead. Rewarm biscuits in 350 degrees F. oven just until heated through, about 5 minutes.)
Cut biscuits in half. Place 1 bottom half on each plate. Spoon 1/4 cup compote over each. Top with large spoonful sweetened compote, then more whipped cream. Cover with biscuits tops. Garnish with mint sprigs and serve.

White Chocolate Easter Cake with Strawberries 
3/4 cup half and half
3 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), chopped
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup unsalted pistachio nuts
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
3 large egg yolks
5 large egg whites
3 1-pint baskets strawberries
1 7-ounce package marzipan
2 tablespoons plus 1/4 cup powdered sugar
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
Makes about 3 cups
1 1/4 cups half and half
3/4 cup unsalted pistachio nuts
1/2 cup sugar
4 large egg yolks
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high-sides.
Bring half and half to simmer in small saucepan. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and vanilla and stir until smooth; cool to room temperature.
Finely grind pistachios with flour and baking powder in processor. Using electric mixer, beat butter and 3/4 cup sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Add yolks 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in flour mixture alternately with white chocolate mixture in 2 additions each. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar, beating until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into batter in 2 additions.
Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn out cakes onto racks; cool completely.
Hull and slice 2 baskets strawberries. Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 1 cup buttercream over. Arrange enough berry slices over to cover. Spread 1 cup buttercream over. Arrange another layer of sliced berries over to cover. Spread thin layer of buttercream over second cake layer and place cake, buttercream side down, atop berries. Press gently to adhere. Spread remaining buttercream over top and sides of cake. Chill cake until buttercream is firm, about 1 hour.
Knead marzipan in medium bowl to soften. Shape marzipan into disk. Dust work surface with 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. Roll out marzipan disk on powdered sugar to 9 1/2-round. Place on cake; press to adhere to top and gently press overhang onto sides of cake.
Beat whipping cream and remaining 1/4 cup powdered sugar in large bowl to firm peaks. Transfer to large pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Pipe cream in side-by-side columns up sides of cake. Pipe border of rosettes around top edge of cake. Refrigerate cake until cold, at least 2 hours. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and keep refrigerated. Let stand at room temperature 30 minutes before continuing.)
Arrange remaining whole strawberries in center of cake.
Bring half and half and pistachios to boil in heavy small saucepan. Remove from heat; cover and let stand 1 hour. Whisk sugar, yolks and flour in medium bowl to blend. Bring half and half mixture to simmer; gradually whisk into yolk mixture. Return to same saucepan; stir over medium heat until mixture bubbles thickly, about 5 minutes. Mix in vanilla. Transfer to processor; blend until nuts are very finely chopped. Transfer pistachio pastry cream to bowl. Cover and cool to room temperature, about 2 hours.
Using electric mixer, beat unsalted butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add pastry cream by 1/4 cupfuls, beating well after each addition. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Bring to room temperature before using.)

Five-Layer Orange Cream Cake 
4 tablespoons water
1 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
3/4 cup orange juice
1/3 cup sugar
1 tablespoon plus 2 teaspoons cornstarch
2 large egg yolks
1 teaspoon grated orange peel
1 1/4 cups chilled whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 12-ounce purchased pound cake, cut horizontally into 5 layers
Thin strips of orange peel

Place 2 tablespoon water in small bowl. Sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand until softened, about 10 minutes.
Combine juice and sugar in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium heater until sugar dissolves. Whisk cornstarch and 3 tablespoons water in medium bowl until blended. Whisk in egg yolks. Gradually whisk half of hot juice mixture into egg mixture. Return mixture to same saucepan. Stir over medium heat until mixture boils and thickens, about 2 minutes. Strain into large bowl. Add gelatin mixture and 1 teaspoon grated peel; stir until gelatin dissolves. Press plastic onto surface of custard; chill until cool but not set, about 30 minutes.
Beat cream and vanilla in another bowl until stiff peaks form. Whisk custard until smooth. Fold 1/2 cup whipped cream into custard. Gently fold remaining cream into custard in 2 additions.
Place bottom cake layer on platter. Place strips of waxed paper under edges of cake to protect platter. Spread 1/2 cup orange cream over cake. Repeat layering with remaining cake layers and 1 1/2 cups orange cream, using 1/2 cup cream per layer and ending with top cake layer. Spread remaining orange cream over top and sides of cake. Sprinkle thin strips of orange peel down center of cake. Remove waxed paper.(Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and chill.)

Pine Nut Crescents 
3/4 cup blanched slivered almonds
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
Pinch of salt
2 large egg whites
1 1/4 cups pine nuts (about 6 ounces)

Butter and lightly flour heavy large baking sheet. Finely grind almonds in processor. Add sugar, powdered sugar, flour and salt; process until well blended. Add egg whites; process until smooth dough forms (dough will be very sticky).
Spread pine nuts on floured surface. Using floured hands, form dough into 1-inch balls. Roll balls in pine nuts, pressing slightly to adhere. Form balls into crescents. Transfer to prepared baking sheet, spacing 1 inch apart. Let cookies stand at room temperature at least 1 hour and up to 2 hours before baking.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Bake cookies until golden brown, about 18 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Kirsch and Dried Cherry Kugelhupf 
1 cup dried tart cherries
1/2 cup golden raisins
4 tablespoons kirsch (clear cherry brandy)
1/4 cup warm water (105 degrees F. to 115 degrees F.)
Pinch of sugar
2 envelopes dry yeast
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
4 large egg yolks
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon almond extract
1 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup lukewarm milk
3 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 cup almonds, toasted finely chopped
1 cup powdered sugar
2 tablespoons kirsch
2 teaspoons milk

Combine first 3 ingredients in medium bowl. Let stand 15 minutes.
Combine 1/4 cup warm water and pinch of sugar in bowl. Sprinkle yeast over; stir to dissolve. Let stand 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, in large mixer bowl fitted with dough hook, beat 6 tablespoons butter, 3/4 cup sugar, yolks, peel, vanilla, almond extract and salt until well blended. Add yeast mixture, milk and 1 cup flour and beat until smooth. Beat in dried fruits and their soaking liquid. Gradually add remaining 2 1/2 cups flour and beat until very soft dough forms, about 6 minutes. Let stand 15 minutes.
Butter 12-cup kugelhupf or Bundt pan with 2 tablespoons butter. Add almonds; tilt pan to coat bottom and sides. Spoon dough into pan. Cover with plastic and towel. Let dough rise in warm place until within 1 inch of top of pan, about 2 1/2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Bake kugelhupf until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Let stand 10 minutes. Turn out onto rack; cool completely.
Combine sugar and kirsch in bowl. Add milk; stir. Spoon over kugelhupf.

Neapolitan Biscotti 
1 1/2 cups whole almonds
2 cups all purpose flour
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/3 cup honey
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1 large egg
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon finely grated orange peel

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line large baking sheet with foil. Butter foil. Finely grind 3/4 cup almonds in processor. Transfer to large bowl. Add flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda and cinnamon. Whisk honey, oil, egg, yolk and orange peel in small bowl to blend. Add to dry ingredients and stir until dough just begins to hold together (if dough seems firm and dry, let stand 10 minutes to soften).
Turn out dough onto lightly floured work surface. Add remaining 3/4 cup almonds and knead to distribute evenly. Divide dough in half. Roll each half into 12-inch-long, 2-inch-wide log. Place logs on prepared sheet, spacing 4 inches apart. Bake until firm to touch and dark brown (logs may crack), about 40 minutes.
Cool logs on sheet on rack 15 minutes. Transfer logs to work surface. Using serrated knife, cut logs diagonally into 1/2-inch-thick slices. Place cut side down on same foil-lined sheet and bake until light brown and dry, about 12 minutes. Cool on sheet on rack. (Can be made 1 week ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Chocolate Truffle Cake 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 cup packed light brown sugar
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3/4 cup finely chopped walnuts
1 large egg
2 teaspoons vanilla
1 1/2 cups walnuts
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
1 cup packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup honey
1/4 cup heavy cream
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1 1/4 cups heavy cream
1 pound fine-quality bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and butter a 9-inch springform pan.
In a small saucepan melt butter and stir in cocoa powder. Remove pan from heat and add brown sugar, stirring until dissolved. Stir in flour, walnuts, egg, and vanilla and spread batter evenly in springform pan. Bake base in middle of oven 10 minutes, or just until firm, and transfer to a rack to cool.
Arrange walnuts in one layer on top of base. In a small heavy saucepan combine butter, brown sugar, and honey and cook over moderate heat, stirring occasionally, 8 to 10 minutes, or until a candy thermometer registers 280 degrees F. Remove pan from heat and add cream, vanilla, and lemon juice, stirring until smooth. Cool mixture to room temperature and pour over walnuts, spreading evenly.
In a saucepan bring cream just to a boil. Finely chop chocolate. Put chocolate in a metal bowl and pour hot cream over it, stirring until smooth. Cool ganache to room temperature and beat with an electric mixer until it just holds soft peaks (do not overbeat or it will become grainy).
Spread ganache evenly over filling. Chill cake, covered, at least 4 hours and up to 1 day.
Run a thin knife around edge of cake and remove side of pan. With a large spatula transfer cake to a plate and let stand at room temperature 30 minutes before serving.

Fudgy Orange-Zucchini Cake with Orange Glaze 
2 1/2 cups flour
1/2 cup cocoa
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon cinnamon
3/4 cup butter
2 cups sugar
3 eggs, lightly beaten
2 teaspoons vanilla
1/2 cup milk
3 cups grated zucchini
1 tablespoon grated orange zest
1 cup chopped nuts
calendula blossoms and petals, tuberous begonia blossoms, or orange mint sprigs, for garnish
1 1/4 cups sifted confectioner' sugar
1/4 cup fresh orange juice
1 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Sift the flour, cocoa, baking powder, baking soda, salt and cinnamon together and set aside. In a bowl, cream the butter and sugar until fluffy. Add the eggs, vanilla and milk to the butter mixture. Stir in the dry ingredients and mix until well blended. Fold in the zucchini, orange zest and nuts. Pour into a greased and floured bundt cake pan.Bake 50 to 60 minutes. Allow the cake to cool for 15 minutes before turning out onto a rack.
To make the glaze, in a bowl mix together the sugar, orange juice and vanilla. While the cake is still warm, drizzle with the glaze. Garnish with flowers or mint sprigs.

Double-Nut Maple Bars 
1 1/4 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
Pinch of salt
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 large egg yolk
1 tablespoon whole milk
1/3 cup pure maple syrup
1/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/4 cup whipping cream
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
3/4 cup pecans, toasted, coarsely chopped
3/4 cup walnuts, toasted, coarsely chopped
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 8 x 8 x 2-inch metal baking pan. Combine flour, sugar and salt in processor and blend. Add butter and process until mixture resembles coarse meal. Combine egg yolk and milk in small bowl. Drizzle egg mixture into processor; process using on/off turns just until dough clumps together but is still dry. Transfer dough crumbs to prepared pan. Press crumbs onto bottom and halfway up sides of pan. Bake until crust is set and pale golden, about 25 minutes. Transfer crust to rack and cool.
Combine maple syrup, sugar, cream and butter in heavy medium saucepan. Bring mixture to boil. Boil 2 minutes. Remove from heat and stir in nuts and vanilla.
Pour filling over crust, spreading nuts evenly bake until filling bubbles all over, about 8 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool completely. Cut into bars and serve at room temperature. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Store cookies between sheets of wax paper in airtight container at room temperature.)

Turtle Swirl Cheesecake 
1 9-ounce package chocolate wafer cookies
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
5 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 tablespoons whipping cream
4 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup purchased butterscotch caramel fudge sauce
1/2 cup (about) whole toasted pecans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Finely grind cookies in processor. Blend in butter. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Wrap outside of springform pan with foil.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add sugar and beat until smooth. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Mix in vanilla extract.
Bring cream to simmer in heavy small saucepan. Reduce heat to low. Add chocolate and stir until mixture is melted and smooth. Remove from heat.
Pour half of cream cheese mixture into crust. Spoon half of chocolate mixture over by tablespoons, spacing evenly. Using tip of knife, swirl chocolate mixture into filling. Spoon remaining cream cheese mixture over. Spoon remaining chocolate mixture over by tablespoons. Swirl into filling. Bake until sides are set and center moves slightly when pan is shaken, about 1 hour 5 minutes. (Cake may crack.) Cool in pan on rack. Chill overnight.
Using small knife, cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Drizzle 1/4 cup caramel sauce over top of cake. Garnish with whole pecans. Pass remaining sauce separately.

Butterscotch Almond Cheesecake 
1 cup unbleached all purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
1/4 cup almonds, toasted
1/4 teaspoon salt
7 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 egg yolk
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/4 cup Scotch whisky
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
4 large eggs
2 cups sour cream
2 cups sugar
2/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon Scotch whisky
2/3 cup whipping cream
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
3/4 cup very coarsely chopped toasted almonds (about 3 1/2 ounces)
Sweetened whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line bottom of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 3-inch-high sides with foil. Butter and flour foil. Blend first 4 ingredients in processor until nuts are finely chopped. Add butter, yolk and extract and blend until mixture begins to gather together. Press onto bottom (not sides) of prepared pan. Bake until golden about 25 minutes. Transfer to rack. Cool 10 minutes. Release cake pan sides from crust. Gently turn out crust onto rack; peel off foil and cool. Place crust back into pan and reattach pan sides. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, 1 1/4 cups sugar, Scotch and vanilla in large bowl until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until combined. Pour into crust-lined pan. Bake cheesecake until set at edges but center 3-inch area still moves slightly when pan is shaken, about 50 minutes. Place on rack; cool 10 minutes.
Mix sour cream with remaining 1/4 cup sugar. Spoon sour cream mixture over cheesecake. Bake 10 minutes. Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool 10 minutes. Run small sharp knife around top edge of pan to loosen cake. Chill overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead.)
Stir sugar and 2/3 cup Scotch in heavy large saucepan over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and boil without stirring until syrup turns golden, occasionally brushing down sides of pan with pastry brush dipped into water and swirling pan. Add 2/3 cup cream and butter (mixture will bubble) and stir until smooth. Cool 10 minutes. Stir in 1 tablespoon Scotch. Let stand until cool but still pourable, about 2 hours. Mix in 1/2 cup almonds.
Spoon all but 1/2 cup butterscotch topping over cheesecake (reserve remainder for another use). Sprinkle with remaining 1/4 cup chopped almonds. Refrigerate up to 1 hour.
Run sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Spoon cream into pastry bag fitted with star tip. Pipe cream over top edge of cake.

Fudgy Hazelnut Brownies with Marbled Chocolate Glaze 
2 1/2 cups semisweet chocolate chips
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
1 cup sugar
4 large eggs
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1 cup coarsely chopped toasted hazelnuts
12 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
3 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 15 x 10 x 1-inch jelly-roll pan. Stir chocolate and butter in heavy medium saucepan over medium-low heat until melted and smooth. Remove from heat. Combine sugar, eggs and salt in heavy large saucepan. Whisk constantly over low heat just until sugar dissolves, about 5 minutes (do not boil). Remove from heat. Whisk in chocolate mixture and vanilla. Whisk in flour and nuts. Spread batter in pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out with some moist crumbs still attached, about 30 minutes. Cool brownies completely in pan on rack.
Stir semisweet chocolate in top of double boiler over barely simmering water until smooth. Remove from over water. Spread over brownie.
Stir white chocolate in top of double boiler over barely simmering water until smooth. Spoon into resealable plastic bag. Cut very tip off 1 corner of bag. Pipe lines of white chocolate crosswise atop brownie, spacing lines 1 inch apart. Draw a toothpick lengthwise across lines, alternating direction from left to right and right to left, to create marbled pattern. Chill just until firm enough to cut, about 30 minutes. Cut into small squares. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Refrigerate in single layer in airtight containers. Bring to room temperature before serving.)

Cinnamon-Raisin Biscotti 
1 large egg
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon brandy
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons all purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon (generous) salt
1/3 cup raisins
1/3 cup whole almonds, toasted

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Lightly grease heavy large baking sheet. Using hand-held electric mixer, beat egg and sugar in medium bowl until very thick and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Beat in brandy and vanilla. Sift flour, baking powder, cinnamon and salt into egg mixture and blend well. Mix in raisins and almonds. Spoon dough onto prepared sheet to form 10- to 11-inch strip. Using moistened fingertips, shape dough into neat 11-inch-long by 2 1/2-inch-wide log.
Bake until log just begins to brown and feels firm to touch, about 20 minutes. Cool cookie log on sheet 15 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Transfer cookie log to work surface. Using serrated knife, cut crosswise into 1/3-inch-wide slices. Arrange slices on same baking sheet. Bake 10 minutes. Turn slices over. Bake until beginning to color, about 8 minutes longer. Cool cookies completely on baking sheet (cookies will become very crisp). (Can be prepared 1 week ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Italian Hazelnut Espresso Shortbread Cookies 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon instant espresso powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2/3 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked, coarsely chopped
2 tablespoons hot water
2 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Blend flour, brown sugar, cornstarch, 1 tablespoon espresso powder and salt in processor. Add butter and vanilla. Using on/off turns, process until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add nuts; blend until finely chopped. Transfer dough to floured work surface. Knead just until dough comes together.
Divide dough in half. Press each half into 9-inch-diameter tart pan with removable bottom. Bake until deep golden brown, about 25 minutes. Transfer shortbread to rack; cool 2 minutes. Remove pan sides.
Cut each shortbread round into 24 wedges. Cool completely.
Mix 2 tablespoons hot water and remaining 1 teaspoon espresso powder in small saucepan. Add chocolate. Stir over medium-low heat until chocolate is smooth. Remove from heat. Cool slightly. Drizzle chocolate mixture over cookies. Let stand until chocolate sets. (Can be prepared ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature up to 1 week, or freeze up to 1 month.)

Lemon Cheesecake with Hazelnut Crust 
3/4 cup hazelnuts, toasted
3/4 cup graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons powdered sugar
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
3 large eggs
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
Lemon slices (optional)
Fresh mint sprigs (optional)

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Finely grind nuts, cracker crumbs and powdered sugar in processor.Add butter; blend using on/off turns until crumbs are moist. Press crumbs onto bottom and 1/2 inch up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Chill while making filling.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until fluffy. Slowly add sugar; beat until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating 30 seconds after each. Mix in lemon juice and peel.
Pour filling into crust. Bake cake until outer 2-inch portion of top is set and center looks slightly glossy and is barely set, about 45 minutes. Transfer to rack cool to room temperature. Cover; chill overnight.
Run knife around sides of pan to loosen. Release pan sides. Place cake on plate. Top with lemon and mint, if desired.

Warm Chocolate Cake with Chocolate Almond Brittle 
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/4 cup sliced almonds, toasted
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup sugar
1 tablespoon cornstarch
2 teaspoons instant espresso powder
1/8 teaspoon salt
6 large eggs, separated

Line 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan with foil. Melt chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring until smooth. Pour chocolate into prepared pan; spread evenly. Sprinkle almonds over chocolate. Refrigerate until chocolate sets, about 30 minutes. Break brittle into irregular shapes. (Brittle can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover tightly and refrigerate.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Line bottom with parchment. Wrap outside of pan with foil. Melt chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring until smooth. Set aside to cool.
Using electric mixer, beat butter and 1/3 cup sugar in large bowl to blend. Mix in cornstarch, espresso powder and salt. Beat in egg yolks, 1 at a time. Mix in melted chocolate. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in another large bowl with 1/3 cup sugar until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into chocolate mixture in 2 additions. Transfer to prepared pan.
Bake cake until set and tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs attached, about 50 minutes. Cool cake completely on rack (cake may fall and appear cracked). Refrigerate until well chilled, about 4 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.)
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Bake cake uncovered just until warm, about 20 minutes. Cut around cake to loosen. Release pan sides. Cut warm cake into wedges. Garnish cake with pieces of brittle and serve.

Flourless Lemon-Almond Cake 
1 1/3 cups blanched slivered almonds
8 tablespoons sugar
4 large eggs, separated
5 teaspoons packed grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Pinch of salt

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter and flour 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pan with waxed paper. Finely grind almonds with 2 tablespoons sugar in processor. Combine yolks, 2 tablespoons sugar, lemon peel, cinnamon and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat until thick and smooth, about 2 minutes. Stir in almond mixture. Using clean beaters, beat egg whites in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 4 tablespoons sugar, beating until stiff but not dry. Fold large spoonful of whites into almond mixture. Gently fold in remaining whites.
Transfer batter to pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool in pan on rack. Turn out onto platter. Remove waxed paper.

Chocolate Chip Crunch Cookies 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 large egg yolk plus 2 teaspoons water, or 1 large egg white
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1/2 cup toasted rice cereal

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. In a bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy and beat in the egg yolk mixture or the egg white. Add the flour, the baking powder, the salt, and the vanilla, stirring until the dough is blended well, and stir in the chips and the cereal. Arrange level tablespoons of the dough 2 inches apart on a lightly greased baking sheet and bake the cookies in the middle of the oven for 8 to 10 minutes, or until they are golden. Transfer the cookies with a spatula to a rack and let them cool.

Layered Lemon Cake with Lemon Curd 
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1 1/4 cups self-rising flour
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2 large eggs
6 tablespoons sugar
6 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
2 teaspoons (packed) grated lemon peel
Powdered sugar
Whipped cream (optional)

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter two 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper. Butter parchment.
Beat butter and sugar in medium bowl until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in lemon peel. Beat in flour alternately with lemon juice in 2 additions each. Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake until cakes begin to pull away from sides from pan and tester inserted in center of cake comes out clean, about 28 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 2 minutes. Turn cakes in pans on racks 2 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely. Peel off parchment.
Whisk eggs and sugar in top of double boiler to blend. Add lemon juice, butter and lemon peel. Set pan over simmering water (do not allow bottom of pan to touch water). Whisk until mixture thickens to pudding consistency and thermometer inserted into mixture registers 165 degrees F., about 4 minutes. Remove from over water; cool. Press plastic wrap directly onto surface of curd; chill until cold. (Cake and lemon curd can be made 1 day ahead. Cover cake and store at room temperature. Keep lemon curd chilled.)
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread lemon curd evenly over. Top with second cake layer. Place decorative stencil or doily atop cake. Sprinkle heavily with powdered sugar. Carefully remove stencil. Serve cake with whipped cream, if desired.

Golden Raisin Cookies with Walnuts 
1 1/3 cups golden raisins
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons (1 3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups walnuts, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 heavy large baking sheets. Soak raisins in enough hot water to cover until soft, about 15 minutes. Drain; set aside.
Mix flour, baking soda and slat in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and both sugars in another large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in vanilla. Add dry ingredients; mix just until blended.Stir in nuts and raisins.
Working in batches and using palms of hands, roll dough into 3/4-inch balls. Arrange on baking sheets, spacing evenly. Bake until cookies are golden brown, about 12 minutes. Transfer baking sheets to racks; cool 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks; cool completely. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Store cookies in airtight container at room temperature.)

Flourless Chocolate Espresso Cake with Raspberry Sauce 
3 10-ounce packages frozen raspberries in syrup, thawed
12 ounces semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 pound (4 sticks) unsalted butter, diced
1 cup freshly brewed espresso or 1 tablespoon instant espresso powder dissolved in 1 cup water
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
8 large eggs, beaten to blend
Fresh raspberries

Working in batches, puree raspberries and syrup in processor. Strain puree into medium bowl. Chill. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.)
Preheat oven to 350  degrees F. Line bottom of 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with parchment. Place all chocolate in large bowl. Bring butter, espresso and sugar to boil in medium saucepan, stirring to dissolve sugar. Add to chocolate; whisk until smooth. Cool slightly. Whisk in eggs.
Pour batter into prepared pan. Place cake pan in roasting pan. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to come halfway up sides of cake pan. Bake until center of cake is set and tester inserted into center comes out with a few moist crumbs attached, about 1 hour. Remove pan from water. Chill cake overnight.
Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Using oven mitts as aid, hold pan bottom over low heat for 15 seconds, warming slightly to release cake. Place platter over pan. Hold pan and platter together tightly and invert. Lift off cake pan; peel off parchment.
Serve with sauce and fresh berries.

Oatmeal Raisin Cookies 
1 cup golden raisins
3 cups dark raisins
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups firmly packed light brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 large eggs, beaten lightly
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground cloves
2 cups old-fashioned rolled oats
2 cups chopped walnuts
2 cups chopped pitted prunes or chocolate chips if desired

In a small heatproof bowl let the golden raisins and the dark raisins soak in 1 cup of boiling hot water, covered, for 30 minutes, or until they are plumped. Drain the raisins over a bowl, reserving 1/3 cup of the soaking liquid. In a large bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the brown sugar and the vanilla until the mixture is light and fluffy and beat in the eggs. Into a bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, the baking soda, the salt, the cinnamon and the cloves, add the mixture to the butter mixture in batches alternately with the reserved soaking liquid, stirring, and stir in the raisins, the oats, the walnuts and the prunes. Drop the batter by heaping tablespoons onto buttered baking sheets, flattening the mounds slightly with the back of the spoon, and bake the cookies in batches in the middle of a preheated 400 degrees F. oven for 6 to 9 minutes, or until they are golden. Let the cookies cool for 3 minutes, transfer them with a spatula to racks, and let them cool completely. Store the cookies in airtight containers.

Old-Fashioned Chocolate Cake with Cocoa Frosting 
3 cups all purpose flour
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups cold water
1 cup corn oil
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups semisweet chocolate chips
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
5 cups powdered sugar
8 tablespoons (about) whole milk
1 1/4 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Sift first 5 ingredients into medium bowl. Mix water, oil and vanilla in large bowl. Whisk in dry ingredients. Divide batter among pans. Sprinkle 1/2 cup chocolate chips over batter in each pan.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 15 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out; cool completely.
Beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in 3 cups sugar. Beat in 6 tablespoons milk and vanilla. Add cocoa and remaining 2 cups sugar; beat until blended, thinning with more milk if necessary.
Place 1 cake layer, chocolate-chips side up, on platter. Spread 2/3 cup frosting over. Top with second cake layer, chocolate-chips side up. Spread 2/3 cup frosting over. Top with remaining cake layer, chocolate-chips side down. Spread frosting over sides and top of cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; let stand at room temperature.)

Almond-Chocolate Macaroons 
2 cups (about 9 1/2 ounces) whole almonds, toasted
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 large egg
2 large egg white
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
3/4 cup finely chopped bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 heavy large baking sheets with foil. Butter foil and dust with flour. Finely grind almonds, sugar, cinnamon and salt in processor. Add egg, egg white and almond extract and process until mixture holds together. Transfer to bowl. Stir in chocolate.
Using moistened hands, roll mixture into 1-inch balls and place on prepared sheets. Flatten to 1/3-inch thick rounds. Bake macaroons until tops puff and centers are still soft, about 12 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool completely. Store in airtight container at room temperature. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead.)

Chocolate Mint Layer Cake with Mint Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 1/4 cups sugar
2 cups all purpose flour
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups whole milk, hot
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, melted, hot
2 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons peppermint extract
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese
5 cups powdered sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 15 1/2 x 10 1/2 x 1-inch baking sheet with waxed paper. Mix first 5 ingredients in large bowl. Whisk in milk and melted butter, then eggs and 3/4 teaspoon extract. Spread batter in pan.
Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, powdered sugar, 1/2 cup butter and 3/4 teaspoon extract in large bowl to blend.
Run knife around sides of pan to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto work surface. Peel off paper. Cut cake crosswise in half. Using spatula, place 1 cake half on platter; spread with 2 cups frosting. Top with remaining cake half. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake.

Greek Honey and Anise Twists (Koulourakia) 
1/3 cup honey
4 tablespoons anise-flavored liqueur, such as Marie Brizard
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
4 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
3 large eggs
1 1/2 tablespoons aniseed
2 teaspoons finely grated lemon peel
Sesame seeds

Mix honey, 2 tablespoons liqueur and juice in small bowl. Set glaze aside.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter baking sheets. Combine flour, salt and baking powder in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in remaining 2 tablespoons liqueur, aniseed and lemon peel. Gradually mix in dry ingredients.
Working with 1 tablespoon dough at a time, roll dough between palms and work surface into 7-inch ropes. Form into bow ties or twists. Place on prepared baking sheets, spacing evenly. Brush glaze over cookies. Sprinkle with sesame seeds. Bake cookies until pale golden, about 15 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks. Lightly brush cookies again with glaze. Cool. (Can be made ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature up to 1 week, or freeze up to 1 month.)

Espresso Chocolate Cheesecake Harris 
1 1/2 cups finely ground chocolate wafers (about 26)
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, melted
4 large eggs
3/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 pounds cream cheese, softened
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
2 tablespoons instant espresso powder
12 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), melted and cooled
1/2 cup chilled heavy cream, whipped into soft peaks
Garnish: bittersweet and milk chocolate curls

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. and butter a 9-inch springform pan.
In a bowl stir together wafer crumbs and butter. Press mixture onto bottom and 1 inch up side of pan. Bake crust in middle of oven 10 minutes and cool in pan on a rack.
When crust is cool, wrap pan in foil by putting in middle of am 18-inch square of heavy-duty foil and crimping foil around bottom and up side of pan to secure.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat eggs with sugar until light and fluffy. Add cream cheese and beat until smooth. Sift cornstarch into mixture and add 1 teaspoon vanilla and sour cream. Beat filling until smooth and transfer 2 cups to a small bowl.
In a small cup stir together espresso powder and remaining tablespoon vanilla, stirring until espresso powder is dissolved. Stir espresso mixture into filling in small bowl.
Add chocolate to filling in large bowl, stirring until combined well, and fold in whipped cream. Pour chocolate filling into crust. Spoon espresso filling evenly over chocolate filling and spread to form an even layer, being careful not to mix layers.
Put springform pan in a larger shallow baking pan and pour enough hot water to reach halfway up side of springform pan. Bake cheesecake in middle of oven 1 1/2 hours. Turn off oven and let cheesecake stand 15 minutes with oven door closed. Transfer cheesecake in pan to a rack and cool completely. Chill cheesecake, covered, at least 1 day and up to 2. Run a thin knife around edge of pan and remove side.
Garnish cheesecake with chocolate curls. To serve, cut cheesecake with a sharp knife dipped in hot water.

Chocolate Cupcakes with Butterscotch Icing 
1/3 cup Dutch-process cocoa powder
1/2 cup boiling water
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
1 whole large egg
1 large egg yolk
3/4 cup butterscotch chips
1/4 cup heavy cream

In a small bowl whisk together the cocoa powder and the water until the cocoa powder is dissolved and let the mixture cool to room temperature. In a bowl whisk together the flour, the baking soda, and a pinch of salt. In another bowl with an electric mixer cream together the butter and the sugar and beat in the whole egg and the egg yolk, beating until the mixture is combined well. Beat in the cocoa mixture alternately with the flour mixture, beating well after each addition, divide the batter among 12 paper-lined 1/2-cup muffin tins, and bake the cupcakes, in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Turn the cupcakes out onto a rack and let them cool completely.
In another bowl combine the butterscotch chips and the cream, scalded, let the chips soften, and whisk the mixture until it is smooth. Let the icing cool completely, whisk it until it is fluffy, and spread it on the cupcakes.

Cheesecake with Fresh Berries 
1/2 cup graham cracker crumbs
1 1/2 pounds hoop cheese or other dry-curd cheese (such as farmer cheese)
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 large eggs
3/4 cup sour cream
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
Assorted berries
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter bottom and sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Place cracker crumbs in pan. Rotate pan to coat bottom and sides. Blend cheese in processor until creamy. Add sugar and butter and process until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, processing until blended after each addition. Add sour cream, vanilla, cornstarch and lemon peel; process until smooth.
Pour cheese mixture into graham cracker-lined pan. Bake cheesecake until filling is set, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool completely. Chill 4 hours. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover; keep chilled.)
Cut around sides of pan to loosen cheesecake. Remove pan sides. Arrange berries over top of cheesecake. Sift powdered sugar over.

Almond Macaroons 
3 large egg whites
Zest of 1 large lemon
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups blanched finely ground almonds
Cooking spray, butter, or margarine for greasing pans

Preheat the oven to 275 degrees F. In an electric mixer, beat the egg whites until they form soft peaks. Add the lemon zest. Gradually add the sugar and beat until the whites are very stiff and shiny but not dry. Fold in the ground almonds.
Cover 2 baking sheets with aluminum foil and spray or grease them. Using 2 teaspoons, take a heaping teaspoon of batter in one and scoop it off onto the baking sheet using the other teaspoon. Place the cookies 1 to 1 1/2 inches apart. Repeat with the rest of the dough.
Bake for 20 to 30 minutes or until the cookies are firm and slightly brown. Let cool for 5 to 10 minutes before removing the cookies from the baking sheets to a rack. When cool, store in an air-tight container.

Lemon and Pistachio Praline Meringue Torte 
3/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons water
1 cup shelled unsalted pistachios
5 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1 cup powdered sugar
4 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), chopped
4 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
2 tablespoons plus 2/3 cup sugar
3 tablespoons water
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon plus 2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Oil large baking sheet. Stir sugar and water in heavy small saucepan over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and boil without stirring until syrup turns deep amber, brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush and swirling pan occasionally. Stir in pistachios. Immediately pour mixture onto prepared sheet. Cool praline completely.
Finely chop praline. Grind 1/2 cup praline to powder in processor.
Position 1 rack in center and 1 rack in top third of oven. Preheat oven to 225 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment. Draw two 8-inch-diameter circles on 1 parchment sheet and 1 circle on second. Turn over parchment on baking sheets, marked side down. Using electric mixer, beat 5 egg whites and cream of tartar in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1/2 cup sugar; beat until egg whites are stiff but not dry. Beat in almond extract. Stir powdered sugar and 1/2 cup praline powder in bowl to blend. Fold into meringue in 2 additions.
Divide meringue among traced circles. Using spatula, spread mixture to edges. Bake until crisp and pale golden, reversing baking sheets after 45 minutes, about 1 hour and 45 minutes. Cool meringues completely.
Stir white chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted. Remove from over water; cool.
Using electric mixer, beat egg whites and cream of tartar in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually beat in 2 tablespoons sugar.
Meanwhile, combine remaining 2/3 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons water and corn syrup in heavy small saucepan. Stir over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and boil without stirring until candy thermometer registers 238 degrees F., brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush and swirling pan occasionally, about 5 minutes.
Immediately pour hot syrup in thin steady stream into beaten egg whites, beating until mixture is completely cool, about 4 minutes. Beat in butter 2 tablespoons at a time. Beat in white chocolate, lemon juice, peel and vanilla. Chill until thickened to spreadable consistency, about 45 minutes or less (If frosting looks curdled, place bowl over saucepan of simmering water and whisk just until butter softens slightly. Remove from heat. Using electric mixer, beat buttercream until smooth. Repeat warming technique as necessary to create smooth buttercream.)
Place 1 meringue layer on platter. Spread scant 1 cup buttercream evenly over. Top with another meringue layer. Spread scant 1 cup buttercream evenly over top and sides of torte. Press chopped praline onto sides and in 1-inch border along top edge of torte. Chill overnight. Let torte stand at room temperature 30 minutes before serving.

Mocha Cheesecake Brownie Bars 
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
2 ounces semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
1/3 cup unbleached all purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Pinch of salt
1/3 cup whipping cream
1 1/2 tablespoons instant coffee powder
8 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
2/3 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 large egg yolk
1/4 cup sour cream
1 tablespoon all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup miniature semisweet chocolate
1 cup sour cream
1/3 cup powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 8 x 8 x 2-inch metal baking pan. Melt butter in medium saucepan over low heat. Add chocolate; stir until chocolate melts. Remove from heat. Whisk in remaining ingredients. Spread batter in thin layer on bottom of prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs attached, about 10 minutes. Cool.
Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F. Stir cream and coffee poweder in small saucepan over medium-high heat until coffee powder dissolves. Cool.
Beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until light. Beat in egg and yolk. Add sour cream, flour, vanilla and coffee mixture; beat until smooth. Stir in chocolate chips. Spoon filling evenly over brownie. Bake until filling puffs slightly around edges and the center is set, about 35 minutes. Cool completely on rack. Cover pan with foil and chill overnight.
Stir sour cream and sugar in small saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves, about 2 minutes (do not boil). Spread topping evenly over filling. Cool slightly. Cover; chill until topping sets, at least 2 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead; keep chilled.) Cut dessert into 24 bars. Serve cold.

Pumpkin-Honey Cake 
2 1/4 cups cake flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
2 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
3/4 cup canned solid pack pumpkin
1/3 cup sour cream
1/3 cup honey
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
3 large eggs
1 pound Philadelphia-brand cream cheese, room temperature
2 cups powdered sugar
1/3 cup plus 1/4 cup canned solid pack pumpkin
1/4 cup honey
1/4 teaspoon (scant) ground allspice
1 cup chilled whipping cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 15 1/2 x 10 1/2 x 1-inch jelly roll pan with foil, leaving overhang on short sides; butter and flour foil. Sift 2 1/4 cups flour and next 5 ingredients into medium bowl. Whisk pumpkin, sour cream, honey and vanilla in small bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in sugar. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat dry ingredients into butter mixture alternately with pumpkin mixture.
Spread batter evenly in prepared pan. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool in pan on rack.
Beat cream cheese, powdered sugar, 1/3 cup pumpkin, honey and allspice in large bowl until fluffy. Beat whipping cream in medium bowl until stiff peaks form. Fold whipped cream into cream cheese mixture in 2 additions. Spoon 1 1/2 cups frosting into small bowl to use for decorating; cover and refrigerate.
Using foil as aid, lift cake onto work surface. Cut cake crosswise into three 10 x 4-inch rectangles (reserve remaining cake for another use). Slide spatula under 1 rectangle; transfer cake to platter. Spread with 3/4 cup frosting. Top with second cake. Spread with 3/4 cup frosting. Top with third cake. Spread 1 cup frosting in thin layer over top and sides of cake to anchor crumbs. Chill 1 hour.
Spread remaining frosting from large bowl decoratively onto sides of cake. Spoon 3/4 cup reserved frosting from small bowl into pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Pipe frosting in diagonal lines on top of cake, spacing about 3/4 inch apart. Squeeze frosting from pastry bag back into small bowl of frosting. Mix in remaining 1/4 cup pumpkin. Spoon pumpkin frosting into pastry bag and pipe lines of shells or rosettes between frosting lines on cake. Refrigerate until frosting sets, about 2 hours. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover with foil dome and keep refrigerated. Let stand 2 hours at room temperature before serving.)

Chocolate-Almond Soufflé Torte 
1 cup (about 5 ounces) whole almonds, toasted, cooled
4 tablespoons plus 1/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
1/2 cup whipping cream
1 pound bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
6 large eggs, separated, room temperature
1 cup chilled whipping cream
2 tablespoons amaretto or 1 teaspoon almond extract
Powdered sugar
1/2 cup almond slices, toasted

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Shake out excess flour. Line bottom of pan with parchment paper; butter paper.
Combine 1/2 cup whole almonds and 2 tablespoons sugar in processor. Using on/off turns, grind nuts finely. Transfer mixture to large bowl. Combine remaining 1/2 cup whole almonds and vegetable oil in processor. Process until mixture is thick and pasty (consistency will be similar to that of peanut butter), scraping bowl frequently, about 3 minutes.
Stir butter and 1/2 cup whipping cream in heavy large saucepan over medium heat until butter melts and mixture simmers. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and whisk until smooth. Stir in both almond mixtures. Cool slightly.
Using electric mixer, beat egg whites in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1/3 cup sugar and beat until stiff peaks form. Beat egg yolks in another large bowl until very pale and thick, about 5 minutes. Gradually beat chocolate mixture into egg yolks. Fold in egg whites in 3 additions.
Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake cake until sides crack and puff and tester inserted into center comes out with moist batter attached, about 35 minutes. Transfer cake to rack. Cool cake to room temperature, about 2 hours (center will fall slightly as cake cools.) (Can be prepared 4 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
Beat chilled cream, amaretto and remaining 2 tablespoons sugar in large bowl until soft peaks form.
Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Dust cake with powdered sugar. Sprinkle toasted almond slices around top edge of cake. Serve chilled or at room temperature with whipped cream.

Almond Thumbprints 
1 cup blanched whole almonds, toasted
1/2 cup sugar
2 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1/2 cup (about) fruit preserves

Combine almonds and 1/2 cup sugar in processor and process until almonds are finely chopped.
Mix flour, powdered sugar, baking powder and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter, egg yolk and almond mixture in large bowl to blend. Beat in vanilla and almond extracts. Mix dry ingredients into butter mixture in 3 additions. Cover dough and refrigerate until firm, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. With hands, roll 1 generous tablespoonful of dough for each cookie into 1 1/4-inch-diameter ball. Place cookies on 2 ungreased baking sheets, spacing 2 inches apart. Make depression in center of each cookie with fingertip or handle of wooden spoon. Bake cookies 10 minutes.
Press back of teaspoon into cookies to re-form depressions. Fill each depression with 1/2 teaspoon preserves. Continue baking cookies until light golden brown around edges and on bottom, about 8 minutes longer. Cool on baking sheets 2 minutes. Using metal spatula, transfer cookies to rack and cool completely. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Store between sheets of waxed paper in airtight container at room temperature.)

Christmas Gingerbread Cake with Maple Whipped Cream 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3 cups all purpose flour
2 tablespoons ground ginger
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup minced crystallized ginger
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 large eggs
1 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
1 cup boiling water
2 1/2 teaspoons grated orange peel
3 cups chilled whipping cream
1/2 cup pure maple syrup
1 tablespoon finely chopped crystallized ginger
Orange peel strips

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Spray 10-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Line bottom of pan with parchment paper; spray paper. Sift flour and next 6 ingredients into medium bowl. Mix in crystallized ginger.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in brown sugar. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Gradually beat in molasses, then 1 cup boiling water. Mix in grated orange peel. Gradually mix in dry ingredients.
Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 1 hour. Transfer pan to rack and cool 15 minutes. Run knife around pan sides. Turn cake out onto rack; peel off paper. Cool.
Beat cream and maple syrup in large bowl until stiff peaks form.
Cut cake horizontally into 3 equal layers. Transfer 1 cake layer, cut side up, to platter. Spread 1 1/2 cups whipped cream mixture over. Repeat layering with 1 cake layer and 1 1/2 cups whipped cream mixture. Top with remaining cake layer, cut side down. Spread remaining whipped cream over top and sides of cake. Sprinkle crystallized ginger atop cake around edge. Garnish with orange peel strips. Cover with cake dome; chill at least 1 hour and up to 6 hours.

Brandied Peach Compote Cake 
1 2/3 cups sugar
1 vanilla bean, chopped
1 1/2 cups water
1/4 cup brandy (kosher for Passover)
1 tablespoon peach or apricot preserves
6 fresh or frozen unsweetened raspberries (optional)
1 1/4 pounds frozen unsweetened sliced peaches (about 5 cups), thawed
1/2 cup matzo cake meal
1/2 cup potato starch
5 large eggs, separated
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted pareve margarine, melted
1/3 cup liquid nondairy creamer
1 tablespoon brandy (kosher for Passover)
1/2 teaspoon coarse salt
Fresh raspberries (optional)

Combine sugar and vanilla bean in processor. Blend 2 minutes. Sift to remove vanilla pieces. (Can be made 2 weeks ahead. Store airtight.)
Combine 1/4 cup vanilla sugar, water, brandy, preserves and raspberries, if using in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium-high heat until sugar dissolves. Add peaches. Bring to boil; reduce heat and cook until peaches are barely tender, about 5 minutes. Using slotted spoon, transfer peaches to strainer set over bowl. Boil syrup until very thick and reduced to scant 1/3 cup, adding any juices that continue to drain from peaches, about 13 minutes. Strain syrup into small bowl; mix in peaches. Cool. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease bottom of 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Combine cake meal and potato starch in small bowl; whisk to blend. Beat egg yolks and 1/2 cup vanilla sugar in large bowl until thick, about 2 minutes. Beat in margarine, then nondairy creamer and brandy. Beat in dry ingredients. Using clean dry beaters, beat whites and salt in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1/2 cup vanilla sugar and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into yolks mixture in 3 additions. Transfer 1 cup batter to small bowl. Cover; chill. Pour remaining batter into prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 10 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Spoon reserved 1 cup batter in 1-inch band around edge of cake. Arrange peaches close together in spoke pattern in center, pressing ends into batter at edge. Spoon 2 tablespoons peach juices over fruit. Bake until band at edge is firm, about 35 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack; let stand up to 8 hours.
Cut around pan sides to loosen cake; release sides. Garnish with fresh raspberries, if desired.

Chocolate-Glazed Chocolate Pear Torte 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3/4 cup chopped dried pears (about 4 ounces)
3/4 cup water
1 1/3 cups sugar
3 tablespoons poire Williams (clear pear brandy) or brandy
9 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
1/3 cup finely ground almonds
1/4 cup all purpose flour
6 large eggs, separated
8 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup whipping cream
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
1 tablespoon poire Williams (clear pear brandy) or brandy
2 3 3/4-inch square sheets edible gold leaf* (optional)
*Gold leaf sheets can be found at some cookware stores and at specialty art-supply stores. Or they can be ordered by mail from Easy-Leaf, 6001 Santa Monica Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90038; (323) 469-0856

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Spray 10-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with nonstick vegetable spray. Line bottom of pan with parchment paper; spray paper. Combine dried pears, 3/4 cup water and 1/3 cup sugar in heavy small saucepan. Simmer mixture over medium-low heat until pears are tender and liquid is syrupy, about 18 minutes. Transfer mixture to processor. Add pear brandy and purée until mixture forms thick paste. Set pear purée aside.
Stir chocolate and butter in heavy medium saucepan over medium-low heat until smooth. Add pear purée, almonds and flour. Stir to blend well. Transfer mixture to large bowl.
Using electric mixer, beat egg yolks in medium bowl until foamy. Gradually add 1/2 cup sugar, beating until mixture is very pale and thick, about 5 minutes. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1/2 cup sugar to egg whites and beat until medium-stiff peaks form. Fold egg yolk mixture into chocolate mixture in 3 additions. Stir 1/4 of egg whites into chocolate mixture to lighten. Fold in remaining whites in 3 additions.
Pour batter into prepared pan. Cover with foil, sealing foil around pan edges and tenting center to allow torte to rise while baking. Place cake pan in large roasting pan. Add enough hot water to roasting pan to come halfway up sides of cake pan. Bake torte until top and sides are set and firm to touch and tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs attached, about 1 hour 45 minutes. Transfer pan to rack. Cool 20 minutes. Run knife around pan sides to loosen torte. Invert torte onto 10-inch-diameter tart pan bottom. Peel off parchment. Cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover loosely; chill.)
Stir first 4 ingredients in heavy small saucepan over medium-low heat until smooth.
Line baking sheet with foil. Place rack on baking sheet. Transfer torte atop tart pan bottom to rack. Pour 1/2 cup glaze over torte. Using icing spatula and working quickly, smooth glaze over top and sides, covering evenly. Freeze torte until glaze is set, about 10 minutes. Pour remaining glaze over torte and spread over top and sides until smooth. Freeze torte just until glaze is firm, about 15 minutes. (Torte can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill. Let torte stand at room temperature 30 minutes before serving.)
Using spatula, transfer torte to platter. If desired, press tip of small sharp knife into 1 gold leaf sheet; gently peel off 1-inch free-form piece. Using knife as aid, carefully press gold leaf onto torte. Repeat with remaining gold leaf, spacing pieces decoratively.

Free-Form Beesting Cake 
2/3 cup warm milk (105 degrees -115 degrees F.)
a 1/4-ounce package active dry yeast (2 1/2 teaspoons)
1/3 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 large egg yolk
about 2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, cut into 8 pieces and softened
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
1/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons milk
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sliced almonds
Accompaniment: honey porter prune ice cream
we used the soft, chocolaty honey porter made by Samuel Adams (available nationwide); but regional porters on the order of Vermont's Catamount or Oregon's Deschutes Black Butte exhibit the same qualities. Whatever you choose, avoid bitter, hoppy porters such as Sierra Nevada.
1 cup pitted prunes, chopped
1/2 cup porter such as Samuel Adams Honey Porter
3 tablespoons honey
1 tablespoon cornstarch
3 large egg yolks
2 cups milk
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream

In a small heavy saucepan combine prunes, porter, and honey and cook over moderate heat, stirring occasionally, until most liquid is evaporated, 10 to 15 minutes. Cool prune mixture.
In a bowl whisk together cornstarch, yolks, and a pinch salt. In a heavy saucepan combine milk and sugar and bring to a bare simmer. Add hot milk mixture to yolk mixture in a stream, whisking, and return custard to pan. Bring custard to a boil over moderate heat, whisking constantly, and boil, whisking constantly, 2 minutes.
Pour custard into a metal bowl set in a larger bowl of ice and cold water and cool, stirring. Stir in vanilla, cream, and prune mixture and freeze in an ice-cream maker. Makes about 1 quart.
In a large bowl whisk together milk, yeast, and 1 teaspoon sugar and let stand until foamy, about 5 minutes. With an electric mixer on medium speed beat in remaining sugar, salt, yolk, and 1 cup flour until combined well and beat in butter, 1 piece at a time, adding each new piece just as previous one is incorporated. With a wooden spoon stir in 1 1/2 cups flour, adding more if necessary, until mixture forms a soft dough. On a lightly floured surface knead dough 6 minutes, or until smooth and elastic. (Alternatively, dough may be made in bowl of a standing electric mixer, attaching dough hook to knead 4 minutes.)
Transfer dough to a lightly oiled bowl and let rise, covered tightly with plastic wrap, in a warm place until doubled in bulk, 1 to 1 1/2 hours. Punch down dough. Dough may be prepared up to this point 1 day ahead. Put dough in a sealable plastic bag, pressing out excess air, and chill. Bring dough to room temperature before proceeding.
In a small saucepan melt butter over moderate heat and stir in sugar, milk, cinnamon, salt, and almonds. Simmer mixture 1 minute and cool to warm.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper or lightly grease it.
Stretch and press dough onto baking sheet to form a 12-inch round. Spread topping evenly over dough and let rise, uncovered, in a warm place 30 minutes. Press indentations all over cake with your fingertips and bake in middle of oven 18 to 20 minutes, or until puffed and golden. Cool cake on baking sheet 10 minutes and transfer to a rack. Cake keeps, wrapped well in foil and chilled, 1 day or frozen 1 week. Reheat cake in middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven 15 minutes if chilled or 20 minutes if unthawed frozen.
Serve beesting cake warm with ice cream.

Chocolate Fudge Torte 
10 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted pareve margarine, diced
3 large eggs, beaten to blend
1/2 cup liquid nondairy creamer
Pinch of coarse salt
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
6 tablespoons matzo cake meal
2 tablespoons potato starch
5 large eggs, separated
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1/4 cup liquid nondairy creamer
Chocolate shavings (optional)
Fresh mint leaves (optional)

Combine all ingredients in heavy large saucepan. Whisk over medium heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth and just begins to bubble, about 8 minutes. Refrigerate until just thick enough to spread, stirring occasionally, about 1 1/2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 15 1/2x10 1/2x1-inch baking sheet with foil, leaving overhang. Grease foil. Sift 1/2 cup sugar, cocoa powder, cake meal and potato starch into medium bowl.
Combine egg whites and salt in large bowl. Using handheld electric mixer, beat whites until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1/2 cup sugar; beat until stiff but not dry. Using same beaters, beat yolks and 1/2 cup sugar in another large bowl until thick, about 2 minutes. Gradually beat in oil, then nondairy creamer. Add dry ingredients; beat just until blended. Fold whites into yolk mixture in 3 additions.
Spread batter in prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out dry and cake feels firm to touch, about 20 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack. Freeze cake just until firm, about 30 minutes.
Using foil as aid, lift cake onto work surface. Cut cake crosswise into 3 rectangles, each about 5x10 inches. Slide large spatula under 1 cake rectangle; transfer to platter. Spread 2/3 cup frosting over. Top with second layer. Spread 2/3 cup frosting over. Top with third layer. Spread very thin layer of frosting over top and sides of cake to coat thinly and anchor crumbs. Refrigerate 15 minutes to set thin coat of frosting. Spread remaining frosting decoratively over cake. Refrigerate until cold, about 4 hours. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Cover loosely with foil; keep refrigerated.)
Cover top of cake with chocolate shavings and garnish with mint, if desired. Cut crosswise into slices and serve.

Almond Meringues 
4 large egg whites
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1 1/2 cups blanched slivered almonds (about 6 1/2 ounces)
3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Butter parchment. Beat egg whites in large bowl until stiff peaks form. Gradually fold in powdered sugar, almonds and lemon juice (meringue will deflate and will no longer be stiff).
Drop meringue by level tablespoonfuls onto prepared baking sheets, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake until cookies are pale golden around edges, about 25 minutes. Cool completely on baking sheets. Using metal spatula, carefully remove cookies from parchment. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Mocha-Hazelnut Macaroon Domes 
1/2 cup hazelnuts, lightly toasted (about 2 1/2 ounces)
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon all purpose flour
1 large egg white
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons whipping cream
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 teaspoon instant coffee granules
9 ounces imported milk chocolate (such as Lindt), chopped
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
9 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate,chopped
1 tablespoon solid vegetable shortening
30 (about) small raspberries or hazelnuts
3 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt), chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 1 large cookie sheet with parchment. Brush lightly with vegetable oil. Finely grind hazelnuts in processor. Add sugar and flour; blend to powder. With machine running, add egg white and vanilla; blend to paste.
Spoon mixture into pastry bag fitted with no. 4 (3/8-inch-diameter) round tip. Pipe 3/4- to 1-inch-diameter mound onto parchment about 1/2 inch high and spacing 1 inch apart. Dip finger into water and gently press top of cookie to flatten center slightly. Bake until golden brown, about 12 minutes (cookies will spread to about 1 1/2 inches.) Turn parchment (cookies will adhere) over onto work surface. Brush parchment with just enough water to moisten. Let stand until parchment can easily be pulled off cookies, about 2 minutes. Peel off parchment.
Bring cream and butter to simmer in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat. Add instant coffee granules; stir to dissolve. Reduce heat to low. Add chocolate; stir until melted. Mix in vanilla. Pour into bowl. Chill until firm enough to spread, stirring occasionally, about 45 minutes.
Line cookie sheet with foil. Using icing spatula, spread 1 heaping teaspoon ganache onto flat side of each cookie, mounding to dome in center. Place ganache side up on prepared cookie sheet. Repeat with remaining cookies. Chill until ganache sets, 20 minutes.
Line cookie sheet with aluminum foil. Melt bittersweet chocolate with vegetable shortening in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring until smooth. Remove from over water. Grasp 1 cookie between thumb and index finger. Dip ganache portion into melted chocolate. Shake of excess. Turn chocolate side up and place on foil-lined cookie sheet. Top with raspberry or hazelnut. Repeat with remaining cookies. Refrigerate until chocolate sets, about 30 minutes.
Melt white chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring until smooth. Dip spoon into chocolate. Wave from side to side over cookies, forming decorative pattern. Refrigerate until white chocolate sets, about 15 minutes. Place cookies in single layer in airtight containers; chill overnight. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead.) let stand 10 minutes at room temperature before serving.

Lemon-Poppy Seed Sandwich Cookies 
2 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 large egg
2 tablespoons poppy seeds
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
8 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract

Mix flour, salt and baking powder in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until light. Gradually beat in sugar. Beat in egg, then poppy seeds, lemon peel and extracts. Mix in dry ingredients in 3 additions. Gather dough into ball. Divide dough in half; flatten each half into disk. Wrap in plastic; chill 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 2 large baking sheets. Roll out 1 dough disk on floured surface to 1/8-inch thickness. Using 21/2-inch-diameter fluted cookie cutter, cut out cookies. Arrange cookies 1 inch apart on prepared baking sheets. Gather scraps; reroll and cut out more cookies. Chill cookies on baking sheets 15 minutes.
Bake cookies until edges just begin to color, about 18 minutes. Cool cookies on sheets 3 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks; cool completely. Repeat rolling, cutting and baking with remaining dough. (Can be made ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature up to 2 weeks or freeze up to 1 month.)
Beat all ingredients in large bowl until light and fluffy. Spread 2 teaspoons filling over bottom of 1 cookie. Press second cookie, bottom side down, onto filling. Repeat with remaining cookies and filling. (Can be made 2 hours ahead. Cover and chill.)

Nana's Anise Biscotti 
2 cups sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 large eggs
4 1/2 cups all purpose flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup brandy
1 1/2 teaspoons anise extract
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup whole almonds, toasted
2 tablespoons aniseed

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 heavy large baking sheets with foil. Beat sugar and butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix flour, baking powder and salt in medium bowl. Combine brandy, anise extract and vanilla extract in glass measuring cup. Add dry ingredients and brandy mixture alternately to sugar mixture, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Stir in almonds and aniseed.
Drop dough by spoonfuls onto prepared baking sheets, forming two 2-inch-wide, 13-inch-long strips on each sheet. Moisten fingertips and smooth dough into logs. Bake until golden and firm to touch, about 40 minutes. Transfer sheets to racks and cool completely.
Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F. Transfer cooled logs to work surface. Using serrated knife, cut logs on diagonal into 3/4-inch-thick slices. Arrange slices on baking sheets.
Bake cookies until dry and slightly brown, turning every 10 minutes, about 40 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool. (Can be made 2 weeks ahead. Store in airtight containers at room temperature.)

Caramel-Glazed Walnut Cake 
8 1-inch-thick slices French bread, crust trimmed, bread cut into cubes
1 1/2 cups walnuts, lightly toasted
1 cup sugar
4 large egg yolks
2 tablespoons dark rum
4 teaspoons instant espresso coffee powder dissolved in 1 teaspoon water
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
6 large egg whites
Pinch of salt
1/2 cup sugar
2 tablespoons water
8 walnut halves

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Line bottom with parchment paper. Butter parchment. Dust pan with flour. Finely grind bread in processor. Spread on baking sheet. Bake until golden, stirring occasionally, about 10 minutes. Finely grind breadcrumbs in processor. Measure 3/4 cup crumbs (reserve remainder for another use). Finely grind nuts in processor.
Using electric mixer, beat 3/4 cup sugar and yolks in large bowl until thick, about 3 minutes. Beat in rum, coffee powder mixture and peel. Mix in 3/4 cup crumbs and ground nuts. Beat whites and salt in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar and beat until stiff. Fold 1/3 of whites into batter. Fold in remaining whites in 2 additions.
Spoon batter into pan. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool in pan on rack 10 minutes. Turn out cake. Peel off parchment. Turn cake over; cool on rack 15 minutes.
Line baking sheet with foil. Lightly oil foil. Place cake on prepared sheet.
Combine sugar and water in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to medium-high and boil without stirring until mixture turns amber, brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush and swirling pan occasionally, about 6 minutes.
Pour caramel over top of cake. Oil tip of knife. Immediately cut through caramel layer only, marking 8 serving pieces.Garnish with walnut halves. Cool completely.

Oatmeal Trail Mix Cookies 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup vegetable shortening
1/2 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon baking soda dissolved in 1 tablespoon warm water
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups old-fashioned rolled oats
1/2 cup sweetened flaked coconut
a 6-ounce package semisweet chocolate chips
1/3 cup roasted peanuts
1/2 cup raisins

In a bowl cream the butter and the shortening with the sugars and beat in the egg, the baking soda mixture, the flour, the salt, and the vanilla. Stir in the oats, the coconut, the chocolate chips, the peanuts, and the raisins. Drop rounded tablespoons of the dough about 4 inches apart onto greased baking sheets and with a fork flatten and spread each mound into a round, about 3 inches in diameter. Bake the cookies in batches in the middle of a preheated 375 degrees F. oven for 8 to 10 minutes, or until they are golden, transfer them with a metal spatula to racks, and let them cool.

Chocolate-Espresso Cookies 
6 tablespoons all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
2 large eggs
3/4 cup sugar
2 1/4 teaspoons instant espresso powder
2 1/4 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1 cup coarsely chopped walnuts

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Mix flour, baking powder and salt in small bowl. Stir bittersweet chocolate and butter in heavy large saucepan over low heat until melted. Remove from heat. Using electric mixer, beat eggs, sugar, espresso powder and vanilla in medium bowl until well blended. Stir egg mixture into warm chocolate mixture. Stir in dry ingredients. Stir in chocolate chips and chopped walnuts.
Immediately drop dough by heaping tablespoonfuls onto nonstick baking sheets, spacing 1 1/2 inches apart. Bake until tops crack but cookies are still soft inside, about 12 minutes. Transfer baking sheets to racks; cool 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks; cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Store cookies in airtight container at room temperature.)

Cornmeal Diamonds 
2 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1 1/2 cups yellow cornmeal
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
4 large egg yolks
2 tablespoons water
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon peel

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and lightly flour 2 heavy large baking sheets. Sift flour, cornmeal and salt into large bowl. Beat butter and sugar in another large bowl until creamy. Beat in 3 yolks, 1 at a time, until well blended. Beat in dry ingredients in 3 additions. Mix in water and grated lemon peel and beat until smooth dough forms.
Turn dough out onto generously floured surface and knead until smooth, about 8 turns. Roll out dough to 6x8-inch rectangle about 1 inch thick. Cut rectangle into 1-inch diamond shapes. Transfer cookies to prepared baking sheets, spacing 2 inches apart.
Beat remaining yolk in small bowl. Brush cookies with yolk. Bake until cookies are light golden, about 30 minutes. Transfer to racks; cool. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Dark Chocolate Wedding Cake with Chocolate Orange Ganache and Orange Buttercream 
13/4 cups unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
13/4 cups boiling water
4 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
one 8-ounce container sour cream
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 cups all-purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
3 3/4 sticks (1 3/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1 3/4 cups granulated sugar
3/4 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
5 large eggs
1 cup heavy cream
8 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
2 teaspoons freshly grated orange zest
1 tablespoon Cointreau or other orange-flavored liqueur
one 8-inch cardboard round*
one 6-inch cardboard round*
three 8-inch plastic straws
5 large egg yolks
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup fresh orange juice
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1 1/4 cups sugar
1/2 cup water
5 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
6 1/2 sticks (3 1/4 cups) unsalted butter, cut into pieces and softened to cool room temperature
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons freshly grated orange zest
Note: A cake-decorating turntable* is extremely helpful for assembling and decorating a wedding cake.
Decoration: fraises des bois (wild strawberries)** and small roses with some leaves attached (both fruit and flowers must be nontoxic and pesticide-free)
*available at specialty cookware shops

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. and line 2 buttered 7- by 2-inch round cake pans and 2 buttered 9- by 2-inch round cake pans with rounds of wax paper. Butter paper and dust pans with flour, knocking out excess.
Put cocoa powder in a bowl and whisk in boiling water in a stream until smooth. Stir in chopped chocolate and let stand 5 minutes. Stir mixture until smooth and chocolate is melted and cool mixture. Whisk in sour cream and vanilla.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking soda, and salt. In large bowl of a standing electric mixer beat together butter and sugars until light and fluffy and add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition and scraping down side of bowl. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture and cocoa mixture alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating until batter is combined well.
Pour 2 cups batter into each 7-inch pan and smooth tops. Divide remaining batter between 9-inch pans (about 33/4 cups each) and smooth tops. In middle and lower thirds of oven arrange one 9-inch layer and one 7-inch layer on each rack, putting 7-inch layers in front part of oven. Bake 7-inch layers 25 to 30 minutes and 9-inch layers 35 to 40 minutes, or until a tester comes out with crumbs adhering. Run a thin knife around edges of pans and invert cakes onto racks. Peel off paper and cool cakes completely. Cake layers may be made 2 days ahead and kept at cool room temperature, wrapped well in plastic wrap, or 2 weeks ahead and frozen, wrapped well in plastic wrap and foil. Defrost cake layers (without unwrapping) at room temperature.
In a small saucepan bring cream just to a boil. Remove pan from heat and add chocolate, butter, zest, and liqueur. Let ganache stand 3 minutes and whisk until chocolate is melted. Chill ganache just until cool, about 40 minutes.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat ganache just until light and fluffy before using (do not overbeat or it will become grainy).
Put one 9-inch layer on 8-inch cardboard round and spread evenly with 2 cups ganache. Top with remaining 9-inch layer and gently press layers together to form an even tier. Put one 7-inch layer on 6-inch cardboard round and top with remaining ganache and remaining 7-inch layer in same manner.
Frost top and sides of 9-inch tier with some buttercream and chill while frosting 7-inch tier. Chill both tiers until buttercream is firm.
Cut straws in half and insert 1 straw piece all the way into center of 9-inch tier. Trim straw flush with top of tier and insert remaining 5 straw pieces in same manner in a circle about 1 1/2 inches from center straw. Center 7-inch tier (still on cardboard) on top of 9-inch tier. Fill in any gaps between tiers with buttercream and transfer cake to a cake stand or platter. Chill cake at least 6 hours and up to 1 day.
Arrange fraises des bois and roses decoratively on top and around sides of cake. Let cake stand at cool room temperature (buttercream is sensitive to warm temperatures) 2 to 4 hours before serving. Serves about 30 (including top tier).
In a small heavy saucepan whisk together yolks and sugar and whisk in orange juice, butter, and a pinch salt. Cook mixture over moderately low heat, whisking, until it just reaches boiling point, 5 to 7 minutes (do not let boil), and strain through a fine sieve into a bowl. Whisk in lemon juice and cool curd, its surface covered with plastic wrap. Chill orange curd, covered, until cold, at least 4 hours, and up to 2 days.
In a heavy saucepan bring sugar and water to a boil, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Boil syrup, undisturbed, until it registers 248 degrees  F. on a candy thermometer. While syrup is boiling, in large bowl of a standing electric mixer beat whites with a pinch salt until foamy and beat in cream of tartar. Beat whites until they just hold stiff peaks and beat in hot syrup in a stream (try to avoid beaters and side of bowl). Beat mixture at medium speed until completely cool, 15 to 20 minutes. Beat in butter, 1 piece at a time, and beat until thickened and smooth. (Buttercream will at first appear very thin and at some point look like it is breaking but, as more butter is beaten in, it will thicken and become glossy and smooth.) Beat in orange curd, salt, and zest until smooth. Buttercream may be made 4 days ahead and chilled in an airtight container or 2 weeks ahead and frozen in an airtight container. Bring buttercream completely to room temperature (this may take several hours if frozen) and beat before using. (If buttercream is too cold when beaten it will not be glossy and smooth.) Makes about 8 cups.

Lemon Almond Madeleines 
4 large eggs
2/3 cup granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1 1/2 teaspoons freshly grated lemon zest
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup almonds with the skins, toasted lightly, cooled, and ground coarse
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled slightly
confectioners' sugar for dusting the madeleines

In a bowl with an electric mixer beat the eggs with the granulated sugar until the mixture is thick and pale and forms a ribbon when the beaters are lifted and beat in the almond extract and the zest. Sift the flour in 4 batches over the mixture, folding it in gently after each addition, add the almonds and the butter, and fold them in gently but thoroughly. Spoon the batter into twenty-four 3- by 2-inch buttered madeleine molds and bake the madeleines in the lower third of a preheated 375 degrees F oven for 10 minutes, or until the edges are golden. Turn the madeleine out on racks, let them cool, and sift the confectioners' sugar over them.

Dutch Chocolate-Mint Cheesecake 
1 9-ounce box chocolate wafer, cookies, broken
3 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
3 tablespoons sugar
7 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted, hot
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 pounds cream cheese, room temperature
1 3/4 cups sugar
4 large eggs
1/4 cup whipping cream
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder, sifted
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon peppermint extract
1/2 cup sour cream
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup whipping cream
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
12 fresh mint leaves

Finely grind cookies, chocolate and sugar in processor. Add butter; blend until crumbs begin to stick together. Press crumb mixture firmly onto bottom and up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Melt chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring until smooth. Cool to lukewarm. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until blended. Add eggs 1 at time, beating just until incorporated. Add melted chocolate, cream, cocoa powder and extracts and beat just until smooth.
Pour filling into crust. Bake until center is just set, about 1 hour. Transfer to rack and cool 20 minutes. Press down gently on puffed edges to flatten. Run small sharp knife around top edge of pan to loosen. Do not remove pan sides. Cool. Cover and chill overnight.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine sour cream and sugar in bowl. Spoon sour cream topping over cheesecake. Bake 20 minutes. Chill cheesecake until cold, at least 6 hours.
Bring cream and butter to simmer in heavy small saucepan. Reduce heat to low. Add chocolate and whisk until melted. Freeze until firm enough to pipe, whisking occasionally, about 15 minutes. Remove pan sides from cake. Spoon chocolate topping into pastry bag fitted with small star tip. Pipe 6 diagonal lines atop cake, spacing evenly. Repeat in opposite direction, forming lattice. Pipe 12 rosettes of chocolate around top edge of cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead; chill.) Garnish with mint leaves.

Chocolate Chip Crunch Cookies 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 large egg yolk plus 2 teaspoons water, or 1 large egg white
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1/2 cup toasted rice cereal

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. In a bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy and beat in the egg yolk mixture or the egg white. Add the flour, the baking powder, the salt, and the vanilla, stirring until the dough is blended well, and stir in the chips and the cereal. Arrange level tablespoons of the dough 2 inches apart on a lightly greased baking sheet and bake the cookies in the middle of the oven for 8 to 10 minutes, or until they are golden. Transfer the cookies with a spatula to a rack and let them cool.

Mango-Orange Mousse Cake 
1/2 cup sifted cake flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
2 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
1/2 cup sugar
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1/4 cup orange liqueur
1 package unflavored gelatin
2 1/2 pounds large ripe mangoes, peeled, pitted, chopped
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1 tablespoon powdered sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons orange liqueur
1 1/2 cups sliced almonds, toasted
1 ripe mango, peeled, pitted, sliced

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 400 degrees F. Butter 2 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of cake pans with waxed paper. Butter paper and dust lightly with flour.
Sift flour and baking powder into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat eggs and yolks in large bowl until frothy. Gradually add 1/2 cup sugar and beat until pale yellow and slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are lifted, about 4 minutes. Fold in flour mixture. Fold 1 heaping tablespoon batter into melted butter. Fold butter mixture back into batter. Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake until cakes are just golden brown around edges and toothpick inserted into centers comes out clean, about 10 minutes. Cool cakes completely in pans on rack.
Pour liqueur into small bowl; sprinkle gelatin over. Let gelatin soften 10 minutes. Puree mangoes in processor. Measure puree and return 2 1/2 cups to work bowl of processor (reserve remainder for garnish). Add sugar to mango puree in processor and blend well. Set bowl of gelatin in saucepan of simmering water. Stir until gelatin dissolves. Add gelatin mixture to mango in processor and blend. Whip cream in large bowl to soft peaks. Fold in mango mixture.
Transfer 1 cake layer to 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Spread mango mousse over cake. Place second cake layer atop mousse. Press lightly. Wrap tightly with plastic and refrigerate at least 4 hours. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.)
Whip cream until soft peaks form. Add sugar and liqueur and beat until firm peaks form.
Release pan sides. Transfer cake to platter. Frost top and sides of cake with whipped cream mixture. Press almonds onto sides. Garnish top with mango slices. Brush mango with reserved puree.

Layered Lemon Cake with Lemon Curd 
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1 1/4 cups self-rising flour
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2 large eggs
6 tablespoons sugar
6 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
2 teaspoons (packed) grated lemon peel
Powdered sugar
Whipped cream (optional)

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter two 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper. Butter parchment.
Beat butter and sugar in medium bowl until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in lemon peel. Beat in flour alternately with lemon juice in 2 additions each. Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake until cakes begin to pull away from sides from pan and tester inserted in center of cake comes out clean, about 28 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 2 minutes. Turn cakes in pans on racks 2 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely. Peel off parchment.
Whisk eggs and sugar in top of double boiler to blend. Add lemon juice, butter and lemon peel. Set pan over simmering water (do not allow bottom of pan to touch water). Whisk until mixture thickens to pudding consistency and thermometer inserted into mixture registers 165 degrees F., about 4 minutes. Remove from over water; cool. Press plastic wrap directly onto surface of curd; chill until cold. (Cake and lemon curd can be made 1 day ahead. Cover cake and store at room temperature. Keep lemon curd chilled.)
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread lemon curd evenly over. Top with second cake layer. Place decorative stencil or doily atop cake. Sprinkle heavily with powdered sugar. Carefully remove stencil. Serve cake with whipped cream, if desired.

Maple Leaf Butter Cookies 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup Grade B maple syrup (or Grade A maple syrup flavored with 3 drops maple extract, or to taste)
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon salt
3 cups all-purpose flour

In a standing electric mixer cream together butter and sugar until light and fluffy and beat in maple syrup and egg yolk until mixture is combined well. Sift together salt and flour over mixture and fold in thoroughly. Chill dough, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, about 2 hours. Dough may be made 4 days ahead and chilled.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Divide dough in half. Keeping one half chilled, lightly flour other half and on a lightly floured surface gently pound with a rolling pin to soften. Roll out dough 1/8 inch thick and with a 3-inch floured maple-leaf cookie cutter cut out cookies, chilling scraps. Arrange cookies on buttered baking sheets and if desired, with back of a knife, mark cookies decoratively. Make more cookies in same manner with remaining dough and with all the scraps pressed together.
Bake cookies in batches in middle of oven until edges are golden, about 12 minutes, and transfer to racks to cool. Cookies keep in airtight containers 1 week.

Brown Sugar Ginger Crisps 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter at room temperature
1 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup finely chopped crystallized ginger (about 3 ounces)
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt

In bowl cream together the butter and the brown sugar and beat in the egg yolk, the vanilla, the crystallized ginger, and the ground ginger. Into the bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, and the salt and combine the batter well. Drop teaspoons of the batter about 3 inches apart onto ungreased baking sheets and bake the cookies in batches in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 10 to 12 minutes, or until they are just golden. Let the cookies cool on the sheets for 5 minutes, transfer them carefully with a metal spatula to racks, and let them cool completely.

Souvaroffs 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup confectioners' sugar
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into bits
1 large egg yolk
2 tablespoons ice water
1/2 teaspoon light rum or vanilla extract
2/3 cup strained jam, such as apricot, raspberry, and strawberry

Into a bowl sift together the flour and the confectioners' sugar, add the butter, and blend the mixture until it resembles meal. In a small bowl whisk together the egg yolk, the ice water, and the rum, add the mixture to the flour mixture, and combine the mixture until it forms a dough. On a work surface knead the dough with the heel of a hand for a few seconds to distribute the fat evenly and form it into a ball. Dust the dough with flour and chill it, wrapped in wax paper, for 30 minutes.
Halve the dough, on a floured surface roll out 1 of the halves 1/8 inch thick, and cut it into rounds with a 1 1/2-inch scalloped cutter. Gather the scraps together, reroll them, and cut out more rounds. Roll out the remaining half of the dough 1/8 inch thick and cut out more rounds in the same manner. Cut out the centers of half the rounds with a 1/2-inch plain round cutter to form rings. Bake the rounds and rings in batches on greased baking sheets in the middle of a preheated 325 degrees F. oven for 12 minutes, or until they are faintly golden. Transfer the cookies with a metal spatula to racks and let them cool.
Spread the bottom of each round lightly with some of the jam and top it with one of the rings. Drop a scant 1/4 teaspoon of the remaining jam in the center of each cookie and let the cookies stand on the racks for 1 hour.

Dried Fruit and Nut Cake 
1 1/2 cups chopped toasted almonds (about 7 ounces)
3/4 cup diced candied lemon peel (about 4 ounces)
2/3 cup chopped toasted hazelnuts (about 3 1/2 ounces)
2/3 cup sifted all purpose flour
1/2 cup diced candied citron peel (about 3 ounces)
1/2 cup diced candied orange peel (about 3 ounces)
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup honey
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup powdered sugar

Line bottom of 9-inch springform pan with parchment paper. Butter parchment paper and sides of pan. Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Mix first 10 ingredients together in large bowl.
Stir honey and 1/3 cup sugar in heavy large saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to medium and cook until candy thermometer registers 235 degrees F. (soft-ball stage), stirring frequently, about 4 minutes.
Remove pan from heat. Mix in nut-flour mixture. Spoon mixture into prepared pan. Press to even thickness using buttered palm of hand or spoon. Bake until top is no longer sticky, about 35 minutes. Cool. Sift powdered sugar over. (Can be prepared 3 weeks ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Spice Sugar Cookies 
3/4 cup vegetable shortening at room temperature
1 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 large egg, beaten lightly
1/4 cup unsulfured molasses
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon salt
granulated sugar for dipping the balls of dough

In a bowl cream the shortening with the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy and stir in the egg and the molasses. Into another bowl sift together the flour, the baking soda, the cinnamon, the ginger, the cloves, and the salt, add the flour mixture in batches to the shortening mixture, and blend the dough well. Chill the dough, covered, for 1 hour.
Roll level tablespoons of the dough into balls, dip one side of each ball into the granulated sugar, and arrange the balls, sugared sides up, about 3 inches apart on greased baking sheets. Bake the cookies in batches in the middle of a preheated 375 degrees F. oven for 10 to 12 minutes, or until they are puffed and cracked on top. Transfer the cookies with a metal spatula to racks and let them cool.

Spiced Pumpkin Cheesecake 
1 cup pecans (about 4 ounces)
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
2 tablespoons sugar
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1 15-ounce can solid pack pumpkin
3 large eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Blend first 3 ingredients in processor until nuts are finely chopped. Add butter; process until moist crumbs form. Press onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Bake until lightly toasted, about 10 minutes. Cool. Wrap outside of pan with double thickness of heavy-duty foil.
Using electric mixer, beat first 4 ingredients in large bowl until smooth. Add pumpkin; beat until blended. Add eggs and vanilla; beat until smooth. Transfer to crust. Set in roasting pan. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to come 1 inch up sides of springform pan.
Bake cake until top is golden and begins to crack and center is set, abut 1 hour 45 minutes. Remove from roasting pan. Cool. Chill overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover; keep chilled.)

Espresso Chocolate Cheesecake Harris 
1 1/2 cups finely ground chocolate wafers (about 26)
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, melted
4 large eggs
3/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 pounds cream cheese, softened
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sour cream
2 tablespoons instant espresso powder
12 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), melted and cooled
1/2 cup chilled heavy cream, whipped into soft peaks
Garnish: bittersweet and milk chocolate curls

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. and butter a 9-inch springform pan.
In a bowl stir together wafer crumbs and butter. Press mixture onto bottom and 1 inch up side of pan. Bake crust in middle of oven 10 minutes and cool in pan on a rack.
When crust is cool, wrap pan in foil by putting in middle of am 18-inch square of heavy-duty foil and crimping foil around bottom and up side of pan to secure.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat eggs with sugar until light and fluffy. Add cream cheese and beat until smooth. Sift cornstarch into mixture and add 1 teaspoon vanilla and sour cream. Beat filling until smooth and transfer 2 cups to a small bowl.
In a small cup stir together espresso powder and remaining tablespoon vanilla, stirring until espresso powder is dissolved. Stir espresso mixture into filling in small bowl.
Add chocolate to filling in large bowl, stirring until combined well, and fold in whipped cream. Pour chocolate filling into crust. Spoon espresso filling evenly over chocolate filling and spread to form an even layer, being careful not to mix layers.
Put springform pan in a larger shallow baking pan and pour enough hot water to reach halfway up side of springform pan. Bake cheesecake in middle of oven 1 1/2 hours. Turn off oven and let cheesecake stand 15 minutes with oven door closed. Transfer cheesecake in pan to a rack and cool completely. Chill cheesecake, covered, at least 1 day and up to 2. Run a thin knife around edge of pan and remove side.
Garnish cheesecake with chocolate curls. To serve, cut cheesecake with a sharp knife dipped in hot water.

Peppermint Twist Cheesecake 
1 9-ounce box chocolate wafer cookies
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
2 pounds cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
4 large eggs
1/4 cup half and half
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon peppermint extract
1/3 cup 1-inch-diameter hard red-and-white-striped peppermint candies, crushed
1 1/2 cups sour cream
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon peppermint extract
Additional peppermint candies

Wrap outside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with aluminum foil. Finely grind cookies with sugar in processor. Add butter, process to blend. Press mixture onto bottom and up sides of prepared pan. Refrigerate crust while preparing filling.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Beat cream cheese in large bowl until smooth. Add sugar and beat until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until blended after each addition. Beat in half and half, then vanilla and peppermint extracts. Stir in crushed peppermint candies. Pour filling into crust.
Bake cheesecake until filling is set in center and edges are puffed, about 50 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool 10 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Stir sour cream, sugar and extracts in small bowl to blend. Pour mixture over hot cheesecake , covering completely. Return cheesecake to oven and bake until top begins to set, about 8 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool completely. Cover and refrigerate overnight. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
Using small knife, cut around sides of pan to loosen cake. Remove pan sides. Garnish cake with peppermint candies.

Chocolate Espresso Cookies 
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
2 cups (12 ounces) semisweet chocolate chips
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces
3 large eggs
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 1/4 teaspoons finely ground dark-roast coffee beans, such as Italian-roast
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/3 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup walnuts

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and grease 2 large heavy baking sheets.
In a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water melt unsweetened chocolate, 1 cup chocolate chips, and butter, stirring until smooth, and remove top of double boiler or bowl from heat. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat eggs, sugar, and ground coffee on high speed until very thick and pale and mixture forms a ribbon when beaters are lifted, about 3 minutes, and beat in chocolate mixture. Into mixture sift in flour, baking powder, and salt and stir until just combined. Stir in remaining chocolate chips and walnuts.
Drop batter by heaping tablespoons about 2 inches apart onto baking sheets and bake in batched in middle of oven 8 to 10 minutes, or until puffed and cracked on top. Cool cookies in baking sheets 1 minute and transfer to racks to cool completely.

Irish Lace Cookies 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups old-fashioned rolled oats

In a bowl cream the butter with the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy and beat in the flour, the milk, and the vanilla. Stir in the oats, drop rounded teaspoons of the dough about 3 inches apart onto ungreased baking sheets, and bake the cookies in batches in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 10 to 12 minutes, or until they are golden. Let the cookies stand on the sheets for 1 minute, or until they are just firm enough to be moved with a metal spatula. (If desired, turn the cookies upside down on the sheets and, working quickly, roll them into cylinders on the sheets. If the cookies become too hard to roll, return them to the oven for a few seconds and let them soften.) Transfer the cookies to a rack and let them cool completely.

Cranberry Gingerbread with Brown Sugar Whipped Cream 
3 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
3/4 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoons salt
3/4 teaspoons ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons unsulfured light molasses
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons buttermilk
2 1/2 cups cranberries, coarsely chopped in processor
1/3 cup chopped crystalized ginger
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1/3 cup chilled sour cream
1/3 cup packed dark brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Additional ground cinnamon

Preheat ovven to 350 degrees F. Grease 13x9x2-inch galss baking dish; dust with flour. Sift first eight ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add sugar and beat until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in molasses. Mix in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk, beginning and wndying with dry ingredients. Fold in cranberries and crystallized ginger.
Spread batter in prepare pan. Bake until springy to touch, about 50 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack. Serve warm or at room temperature with brown sugar cream and a sprinkling of cinnamon.
Combine all ingredients in large bowl. Beat until peaks form. (Can be prepared 4 hours ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)

Almond Macaroons 
3 large egg whites
Zest of 1 large lemon
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups blanched finely ground almonds
Cooking spray, butter, or margarine for greasing pans

Preheat the oven to 275 degrees F. In an electric mixer, beat the egg whites until they form soft peaks. Add the lemon zest. Gradually add the sugar and beat until the whites are very stiff and shiny but not dry. Fold in the ground almonds.
Cover 2 baking sheets with aluminum foil and spray or grease them. Using 2 teaspoons, take a heaping teaspoon of batter in one and scoop it off onto the baking sheet using the other teaspoon. Place the cookies 1 to 1 1/2 inches apart. Repeat with the rest of the dough.
Bake for 20 to 30 minutes or until the cookies are firm and slightly brown. Let cool for 5 to 10 minutes before removing the cookies from the baking sheets to a rack. When cool, store in an air-tight container.

Batey's Cinnamon Bars 
2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 large egg, separated
2 tablespoons cinnamon
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 cup finely chopped pecans

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. and grease a 15 1/2- by 10 1/2-inch jelly-roll pan.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat butter and sugar until light and fluffy and beat in yolk. Add cinnamon and flour and beat until combined well. Spread dough evenly in pan. In a small bowl lightly beat white and brush dough with enough white to coat completely. Sprinkle pecans over top and gently press them into dough. Bake dough in middle of oven 25 minutes, or until golden brown. While confection is still warm, cut into bars, each about 2 1/2 by 1 1/2 inches, and cool completely in pan on rack.

Cinnamon-Raisin Biscotti 
1 large egg
1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon brandy
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons all purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon (generous) salt
1/3 cup raisins
1/3 cup whole almonds, toasted

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Lightly grease heavy large baking sheet. Using hand-held electric mixer, beat egg and sugar in medium bowl until very thick and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Beat in brandy and vanilla. Sift flour, baking powder, cinnamon and salt into egg mixture and blend well. Mix in raisins and almonds. Spoon dough onto prepared sheet to form 10- to 11-inch strip. Using moistened fingertips, shape dough into neat 11-inch-long by 2 1/2-inch-wide log.
Bake until log just begins to brown and feels firm to touch, about 20 minutes. Cool cookie log on sheet 15 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Transfer cookie log to work surface. Using serrated knife, cut crosswise into 1/3-inch-wide slices. Arrange slices on same baking sheet. Bake 10 minutes. Turn slices over. Bake until beginning to color, about 8 minutes longer. Cool cookies completely on baking sheet (cookies will become very crisp). (Can be prepared 1 week ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Italian Hazelnut Espresso Shortbread Cookies 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon instant espresso powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2/3 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked, coarsely chopped
2 tablespoons hot water
2 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Blend flour, brown sugar, cornstarch, 1 tablespoon espresso powder and salt in processor. Add butter and vanilla. Using on/off turns, process until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add nuts; blend until finely chopped. Transfer dough to floured work surface. Knead just until dough comes together.
Divide dough in half. Press each half into 9-inch-diameter tart pan with removable bottom. Bake until deep golden brown, about 25 minutes. Transfer shortbread to rack; cool 2 minutes. Remove pan sides.
Cut each shortbread round into 24 wedges. Cool completely.
Mix 2 tablespoons hot water and remaining 1 teaspoon espresso powder in small saucepan. Add chocolate. Stir over medium-low heat until chocolate is smooth. Remove from heat. Cool slightly. Drizzle chocolate mixture over cookies. Let stand until chocolate sets. (Can be prepared ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature up to 1 week, or freeze up to 1 month.)

Lemon Cheesecake with Hazelnut Crust 
3/4 cup hazelnuts, toasted
3/4 cup graham cracker crumbs
3 tablespoons powdered sugar
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
3 large eggs
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
Lemon slices (optional)
Fresh mint sprigs (optional)

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Finely grind nuts, cracker crumbs and powdered sugar in processor.Add butter; blend using on/off turns until crumbs are moist. Press crumbs onto bottom and 1/2 inch up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Chill while making filling.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until fluffy. Slowly add sugar; beat until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating 30 seconds after each. Mix in lemon juice and peel.
Pour filling into crust. Bake cake until outer 2-inch portion of top is set and center looks slightly glossy and is barely set, about 45 minutes. Transfer to rack cool to room temperature. Cover; chill overnight.
Run knife around sides of pan to loosen. Release pan sides. Place cake on plate. Top with lemon and mint, if desired.

Warm Chocolate Cake with Chocolate Almond Brittle 
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/4 cup sliced almonds, toasted
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup sugar
1 tablespoon cornstarch
2 teaspoons instant espresso powder
1/8 teaspoon salt
6 large eggs, separated

Line 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan with foil. Melt chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring until smooth. Pour chocolate into prepared pan; spread evenly. Sprinkle almonds over chocolate. Refrigerate until chocolate sets, about 30 minutes. Break brittle into irregular shapes. (Brittle can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover tightly and refrigerate.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Line bottom with parchment. Wrap outside of pan with foil. Melt chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring until smooth. Set aside to cool.
Using electric mixer, beat butter and 1/3 cup sugar in large bowl to blend. Mix in cornstarch, espresso powder and salt. Beat in egg yolks, 1 at a time. Mix in melted chocolate. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in another large bowl with 1/3 cup sugar until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into chocolate mixture in 2 additions. Transfer to prepared pan.
Bake cake until set and tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs attached, about 50 minutes. Cool cake completely on rack (cake may fall and appear cracked). Refrigerate until well chilled, about 4 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.)
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Bake cake uncovered just until warm, about 20 minutes. Cut around cake to loosen. Release pan sides. Cut warm cake into wedges. Garnish cake with pieces of brittle and serve.

Flourless Lemon-Almond Cake 
1 1/3 cups blanched slivered almonds
8 tablespoons sugar
4 large eggs, separated
5 teaspoons packed grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Pinch of salt

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter and flour 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pan with waxed paper. Finely grind almonds with 2 tablespoons sugar in processor. Combine yolks, 2 tablespoons sugar, lemon peel, cinnamon and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat until thick and smooth, about 2 minutes. Stir in almond mixture. Using clean beaters, beat egg whites in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 4 tablespoons sugar, beating until stiff but not dry. Fold large spoonful of whites into almond mixture. Gently fold in remaining whites.
Transfer batter to pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool in pan on rack. Turn out onto platter. Remove waxed paper.

Pumpkin Roll Cake with Cream Cheese Filling 
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Pinch of salt
3 large eggs, beaten to blend
2/3 cup canned solid pack pumpkin
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup powdered sugar
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup finely chopped walnuts
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter 13x9x5/8-inch jelly roll pan. Line pan with waxed paper; butter paper. Mix first 5 ingredients in large bowl. Mix in eggs and pumpkin. Pour batter into prepared pan, spreading evenly. Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 15 minutes.
Lay kitchen towel on work surface; dust with 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn out cake onto sugared towel, waxed-paper side up. Fold 1 side of towel over 1 long side of cake, then roll up cake jelly roll style. Cool cake.
Combine cream cheese, 1 cup powdered sugar, butter and vanilla in medium bowl; beat to blend. Mix in walnuts.
Unroll cake; leave on towel. Peel off paper. Spread cream cheese filling evenly over cake. Using towel as, roll up cake and place seam side down on platter. Trim ends of cake. Dust cake with powdered sugar. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
Cut cake crosswise into 1-inch-thick slices and serve.

Golden Raisin Cookies with Walnuts 
1 1/3 cups golden raisins
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons (1 3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups walnuts, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 heavy large baking sheets. Soak raisins in enough hot water to cover until soft, about 15 minutes. Drain; set aside.
Mix flour, baking soda and slat in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and both sugars in another large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in vanilla. Add dry ingredients; mix just until blended.Stir in nuts and raisins.
Working in batches and using palms of hands, roll dough into 3/4-inch balls. Arrange on baking sheets, spacing evenly. Bake until cookies are golden brown, about 12 minutes. Transfer baking sheets to racks; cool 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks; cool completely. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Store cookies in airtight container at room temperature.)

Flourless Chocolate Espresso Cake with Raspberry Sauce 
3 10-ounce packages frozen raspberries in syrup, thawed
12 ounces semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 pound (4 sticks) unsalted butter, diced
1 cup freshly brewed espresso or 1 tablespoon instant espresso powder dissolved in 1 cup water
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
8 large eggs, beaten to blend
Fresh raspberries

Working in batches, puree raspberries and syrup in processor. Strain puree into medium bowl. Chill. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.)
Preheat oven to 350  degrees F. Line bottom of 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with parchment. Place all chocolate in large bowl. Bring butter, espresso and sugar to boil in medium saucepan, stirring to dissolve sugar. Add to chocolate; whisk until smooth. Cool slightly. Whisk in eggs.
Pour batter into prepared pan. Place cake pan in roasting pan. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to come halfway up sides of cake pan. Bake until center of cake is set and tester inserted into center comes out with a few moist crumbs attached, about 1 hour. Remove pan from water. Chill cake overnight.
Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Using oven mitts as aid, hold pan bottom over low heat for 15 seconds, warming slightly to release cake. Place platter over pan. Hold pan and platter together tightly and invert. Lift off cake pan; peel off parchment.
Serve with sauce and fresh berries.

Oatmeal Raisin Cookies 
1 cup golden raisins
3 cups dark raisins
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups firmly packed light brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 large eggs, beaten lightly
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground cloves
2 cups old-fashioned rolled oats
2 cups chopped walnuts
2 cups chopped pitted prunes or chocolate chips if desired

In a small heatproof bowl let the golden raisins and the dark raisins soak in 1 cup of boiling hot water, covered, for 30 minutes, or until they are plumped. Drain the raisins over a bowl, reserving 1/3 cup of the soaking liquid. In a large bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the brown sugar and the vanilla until the mixture is light and fluffy and beat in the eggs. Into a bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, the baking soda, the salt, the cinnamon and the cloves, add the mixture to the butter mixture in batches alternately with the reserved soaking liquid, stirring, and stir in the raisins, the oats, the walnuts and the prunes. Drop the batter by heaping tablespoons onto buttered baking sheets, flattening the mounds slightly with the back of the spoon, and bake the cookies in batches in the middle of a preheated 400 degrees F. oven for 6 to 9 minutes, or until they are golden. Let the cookies cool for 3 minutes, transfer them with a spatula to racks, and let them cool completely. Store the cookies in airtight containers.

Old-Fashioned Chocolate Cake with Cocoa Frosting 
3 cups all purpose flour
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups cold water
1 cup corn oil
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups semisweet chocolate chips
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
5 cups powdered sugar
8 tablespoons (about) whole milk
1 1/4 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Sift first 5 ingredients into medium bowl. Mix water, oil and vanilla in large bowl. Whisk in dry ingredients. Divide batter among pans. Sprinkle 1/2 cup chocolate chips over batter in each pan.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 15 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out; cool completely.
Beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in 3 cups sugar. Beat in 6 tablespoons milk and vanilla. Add cocoa and remaining 2 cups sugar; beat until blended, thinning with more milk if necessary.
Place 1 cake layer, chocolate-chips side up, on platter. Spread 2/3 cup frosting over. Top with second cake layer, chocolate-chips side up. Spread 2/3 cup frosting over. Top with remaining cake layer, chocolate-chips side down. Spread frosting over sides and top of cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; let stand at room temperature.)

Almond-Chocolate Macaroons 
2 cups (about 9 1/2 ounces) whole almonds, toasted
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 large egg
2 large egg white
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
3/4 cup finely chopped bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 heavy large baking sheets with foil. Butter foil and dust with flour. Finely grind almonds, sugar, cinnamon and salt in processor. Add egg, egg white and almond extract and process until mixture holds together. Transfer to bowl. Stir in chocolate.
Using moistened hands, roll mixture into 1-inch balls and place on prepared sheets. Flatten to 1/3-inch thick rounds. Bake macaroons until tops puff and centers are still soft, about 12 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool completely. Store in airtight container at room temperature. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead.)

Babas au Calvado with Glazed Apple Rings 
1 1/2 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 tablespoon sugar
1/4 cup lukewarm milk
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 large egg
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces and softened
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup water
1/3 cup Calvados
1/4 cup apple jelly
2 tablespoons Calvados
1 tablespoon sugar
glazed apple rings and crème fraîche for garnish

Butter eight 1/3-cup ring molds. In the bowl of an electric mixer proof the yeast with the sugar in the milk for 5 minutes, or until the mixture is foamy. Stir in 1/4 cup of the flour, stir the mixture until it is smooth, and let the sponge rise, covered, in a warm place for 20 minutes, or until it is double in bulk. In a small bowl whisk together lightly the egg and the salt. To the yeast mixture add the remaining 1/2 cup flour in 2 batches alternately with the egg mixture, beating well after each addition. Beat in the butter, 1 piece at a time, beating well after each addition, and the cinnamon and beat the dough, scraping down the side of the bowl, for 3 minutes. (The dough will be very soft.) Divide the dough among the prepared ring molds set in a jelly-roll pan, let the babas rise, uncovered, for 15 minutes, or until they are just even with the tops of the molds, and bake even with the tops of the molds, and bake them in the middle of preheated 375 degrees F. oven for 15 minutes, or until they are golden. Transfer the babas in the molds to a rack set over another jelly-roll pan and let them cool for 10 minutes, or until they are only warm.
In a small saucepan combine the sugar and the water, bring the mixture to a boil, stirring until the sugar is dissolved, and simmer the syrup for 3 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the Calvados.
In a small saucepan combine the jelly, the Calvados, and the sugar, bring the mixture to a boil, and simmer it, stirring, for 2 minutes.
Run a thin, sharp knife around the center and side of each mold and invert the babas onto the rack. Reserve 1/2 cup of the syrup in a measuring cup, spoon the remaining syrup, heated to warm, over the babas, reusing the syrup that drips into the pan, until it is all absorbed, and let the babas stand for 15 minutes. The babas may be prepared up to this point 1 day in advance, kept on the rack set over the jelly-roll pan, and covered with foil.
Brush the glaze, heated to warm, carefully over the babas. The babas may be glazed 1 hour in advance.
Reserve 6 to 8 small apple rings. Arrange the remaining apple rings decoratively in overlapping rings on each of 6 to 8 plates, top them with the babas, and garnish each baba with a spoonful of the creème fraîche. Fold the reserved apple rings in half and roll the halves into cones to resemble flower buds. Garnish each baba with an apple-ring  inchbud inch and drizzle some of the reserved syrup around it.

Chocolate Mint Layer Cake with Mint Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 1/4 cups sugar
2 cups all purpose flour
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups whole milk, hot
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, melted, hot
2 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons peppermint extract
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese
5 cups powdered sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 15 1/2 x 10 1/2 x 1-inch baking sheet with waxed paper. Mix first 5 ingredients in large bowl. Whisk in milk and melted butter, then eggs and 3/4 teaspoon extract. Spread batter in pan.
Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, powdered sugar, 1/2 cup butter and 3/4 teaspoon extract in large bowl to blend.
Run knife around sides of pan to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto work surface. Peel off paper. Cut cake crosswise in half. Using spatula, place 1 cake half on platter; spread with 2 cups frosting. Top with remaining cake half. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake.

Greek Honey and Anise Twists (Koulourakia) 
1/3 cup honey
4 tablespoons anise-flavored liqueur, such as Marie Brizard
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
4 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
3 large eggs
1 1/2 tablespoons aniseed
2 teaspoons finely grated lemon peel
Sesame seeds

Mix honey, 2 tablespoons liqueur and juice in small bowl. Set glaze aside.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter baking sheets. Combine flour, salt and baking powder in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in remaining 2 tablespoons liqueur, aniseed and lemon peel. Gradually mix in dry ingredients.
Working with 1 tablespoon dough at a time, roll dough between palms and work surface into 7-inch ropes. Form into bow ties or twists. Place on prepared baking sheets, spacing evenly. Brush glaze over cookies. Sprinkle with sesame seeds. Bake cookies until pale golden, about 15 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks. Lightly brush cookies again with glaze. Cool. (Can be made ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature up to 1 week, or freeze up to 1 month.)

Old-Fashioned Apple Cake 
1 1/2 cups plus 2 tablespoons whole wheat flour
5 teaspoons cornstarch
2 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, diced, room temperature
4 medium Gala or Golden Delicious apples, peeled, cored, cut into 1/3-inch pieces
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon (packed) golden brown sugar
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons milk
2 teaspoons sugar
1 9-inch doily
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Sift first 5 ingredients into large bowl. Rub in butter until mixture resembles coarse meal. Mix in apples and brown sugar. Whisk eggs and milk together; stir into apple mixture (batter will be thick). Transfer to pan. Sprinkle with sugar.
Bake cake until golden and springy to touch, about 35 minutes. Cool slightly on rack. Cut around cake to loosen; remove pan sides. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cool. Wrap tightly; store at room temperature.) Place doily atop cake. Sprinkle powdered sugar over; remove doily.

Chocolate Cupcakes with Butterscotch Icing 
1/3 cup Dutch-process cocoa powder
1/2 cup boiling water
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
1 whole large egg
1 large egg yolk
3/4 cup butterscotch chips
1/4 cup heavy cream

In a small bowl whisk together the cocoa powder and the water until the cocoa powder is dissolved and let the mixture cool to room temperature. In a bowl whisk together the flour, the baking soda, and a pinch of salt. In another bowl with an electric mixer cream together the butter and the sugar and beat in the whole egg and the egg yolk, beating until the mixture is combined well. Beat in the cocoa mixture alternately with the flour mixture, beating well after each addition, divide the batter among 12 paper-lined 1/2-cup muffin tins, and bake the cupcakes, in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Turn the cupcakes out onto a rack and let them cool completely.
In another bowl combine the butterscotch chips and the cream, scalded, let the chips soften, and whisk the mixture until it is smooth. Let the icing cool completely, whisk it until it is fluffy, and spread it on the cupcakes.

Cheesecake with Fresh Berries 
1/2 cup graham cracker crumbs
1 1/2 pounds hoop cheese or other dry-curd cheese (such as farmer cheese)
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 large eggs
3/4 cup sour cream
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
Assorted berries
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter bottom and sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Place cracker crumbs in pan. Rotate pan to coat bottom and sides. Blend cheese in processor until creamy. Add sugar and butter and process until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, processing until blended after each addition. Add sour cream, vanilla, cornstarch and lemon peel; process until smooth.
Pour cheese mixture into graham cracker-lined pan. Bake cheesecake until filling is set, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool completely. Chill 4 hours. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover; keep chilled.)
Cut around sides of pan to loosen cheesecake. Remove pan sides. Arrange berries over top of cheesecake. Sift powdered sugar over.

Chocolate Hazelnut Praline Torte with Frangelico Whipped Cream 
1 recipeHazelnut Praline
3 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped coarse
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sugar
4 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons Frangelico (hazelnut-flavored liqueur)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter an 8 1/2-inch springform pan (2 inches deep) or other cake pan with same dimensions and line bottom with a round of wax paper. Butter paper and dust pan with flour, knocking out excess flour.
In a food processor pulse praline until ground fine. Reserve 1/4 cup ground praline and transfer remaining praline to a bowl. In food processor pulse chocolate until finely ground and add to bowl of praline.
In a bowl with an electric mixer cream together butter, salt, and 1/4 cup sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in yolks, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in vanilla. Stir in praline chocolate mixture (mixture will be very thick).
In another bowl with cleaned beaters beat whites until foamy and add a pinch salt and remaining 1/4 cup sugar in a steam, beating until meringue just holds stiff peaks. Fold one third meringue into yolk mixture to lighten and fold in remaining meringue gently but thoroughly. Pour batter into pan and smooth top.
Bake tort in middle of oven 45 to 55 minutes, or until it begins to pull away from side of pan. Cool torte in pan on a rack (torte will fall slightly and continue to set as it cooks) and remove from pan. Torte may be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered. Bring torte to room temperature before serving.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat cream until it just holds soft peaks. Stir in Frangelico and half of reserved praline.
Top torte with whipped cream and sprinkle with remaining reserves praline. Serve torte immediately.

Orange and Almond Biscotti 
3 cups all purpose flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup sugar
7 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs
3/4 cup chopped blanched almonds (about 3 1/2 ounces)
1/2 cup finely chopped candied orange peel
3 tablespoons orange liqueur or brandy
1 large egg yolk, beaten to blend

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 3 baking sheets with waxed paper. Lightly flour waxed paper. Sift flour and baking powder into medium bowl. Beat sugar and butter in large bowl until blended. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating until fluffy. Mix in nuts and candied orange peel. Add flour mixture and liqueur; beat until well blended.
Spoon dough out onto 1 prepared baking sheet, pressing to form 12-inch-long rectangle, about 5 inches wide (dough will be very soft). Place in freezer until firm, about 30 minutes.
Cut chilled dough lengthwise into 3 strips. Shape each strip on lightly floured surface into 12-inch-long, 1 1/2-inch-wide and 1-inch-high log. Transfer logs to remaining 2 prepared sheets, 1 log on 1 sheet and 2 logs on second sheet, spacing 2 inches apart. Brush logs with egg yolk. Bake until golden and firm to touch (dough will spread), about 30 minutes. Cool completely on baking sheets. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Using serrated knife, cut logs into 3/4-inch-wide diagonal slices. Stand biscotti slices upright on 2 heavy large baking sheets. Bake until biscotti are pale golden, about 25 minutes. Transfer to racks and cool. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Scandinavian Spiced Christmas Cake with Applesauce Filling 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground mace
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 cup water
1/2 cup solid vegetable shortening, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 large egg
1/2 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
1/2 cup buttermilk
1 1/4 cups applesauce
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/4 cup ( 1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1 cinnamon stick
3 cups chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 tablespoons mild-flavored (light) molasses
2 tablespoons brandy
1 1/2 cups sliced almonds, toasted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pan with parchment paper. Mix first 5 ingredients in medium bowl. Dissolve baking soda in 1/4 cup water.
Using electric mixer, beat shortening and sugar in large bowl until blended. Beat in egg. Gradually beat in molasses. Mix in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk. Beat in baking soda mixture. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Transfer pan to rack and cool cake 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto rack; peel off paper. Cool completely.
Combine all ingredients in heavy medium saucepan. Cook over medium-low heat until thick and reduced to 1 cup, stirring occasionally, about 20 minutes. Transfer filling to small bowl and cool completely. Discard cinnamon stick. (Cake and filling can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover cake and let stand at room temperature. Cover filling with plastic wrap and refrigerate.)
Beat chilled cream, sugar, 2 tablespoons molasses and brandy in large bowl until stiff peaks form. Spoon 3/4 cup frosting into pastry bag fitted with medium star tip.
Cut cake into 3 equal layers. Using bottom of tart pan as aid, transfer 1 cake layer to platter, cut side up. Spread 1/2 cup applesauce filling over. Spread 1 cup frosting over. Repeat layering with 1 cake layer, 1/2 cup filling and 1 cup frosting. Top with remaining cake layer, cut side down. Spread some of remaining frosting thinly over top and sides of cake. Press almonds onto sides of cake. Drizzle remaining 1 tablespoon molasses over top of cake. Pipe remaining frosting around top edge of cake. Cover and refrigerate at least 1 hour or up to 6 hours.

Chocolate-Dipped Cherry-Hazelnut Biscotti 
3 cups sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 large eggs
4 teaspoons grated orange peel
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
6 cups all purpose flour
2 1/2 cups hazelnuts (about 9 ounces), toasted, husked, coarsely chopped
1 3/4 cups dried tart cherries (about 8 1/2 ounces)
1 1/2 pounds bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
Unsweetened cocoa powder

Position 1 rack in center and 1 rack in top third of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Using handheld electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in very large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time just until blended. Mix in orange peel, baking soda and salt. Add 3 cups flour, hazelnuts and dried cherries; stir until well blended. Add 3 cups flour, 1 cup at a time, stirring until well incorporated.
Transfer dough to floured work surface. Divide into 4 equal pieces. Knead each piece until dough holds together well. Form each piece into 9-inch-long by 3-inch-wide log. Place 2 logs on each of 2 large ungreased baking sheets, spacing about 3 inches apart (logs will spread during baking). Bake until logs are golden and feel firm when tops are gently pressed, switching and rotating baking sheets halfway through baking, about 55 minutes. Cool logs on baking sheets 15 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Using long wide spatula, transfer logs to cutting board. Using serrated knife, cut warm logs crosswise into 1/2-inch-thick slices. Arrange slices cut side down on 2 baking sheets. Bake biscotti 10 minutes. Turn biscotti over; bake until light golden, about 10 minutes longer. Transfer to racks and cool completely.
Stir chocolate in large bowl set over saucepan of boiling water until melted and smooth. Remove from over water. Dip 1 cut side of each biscotti into melted chocolate to about 1/4-inch depth. Gently shake off excess chocolate. Place biscotti, chocolate side up, on baking sheets. Refrigerate until chocolate is firm, about 35 minutes. Dip pastry brush in cocoa, then lightly brush cocoa over chocolate on each biscotti. (Can be made ahead. Store in airtight containers up to 4 days, or wrap in foil and freeze in resealable plastic bags up to 3 weeks.)

Orange-Pecan Bundt Cake 
Margarine
1 10-ounce package pecans
1/2 6-ounce package Marble or Plain Mandel Cuts (Passover cookies)
2 cups sugar
7 1/2 tablespoons potato starch
5 teaspoons ground cinnamon
7 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon salt
7 large egg yolks
3 tablespoons finely grated orange peel (3 to 4 oranges)
3 tablespoons frozen orange juice concentrate, thawed
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted margarine, melted, cooled
Orange segments (optional)
Whipped cream or nondairy topping (optional)

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Generously coat 12-cup bundt pan (preferably nonstick) with margarine. In processor finely grind pecans with Mandel Cuts, 1/2 cup sugar, potato starch and cinnamon.
Beat egg whites and salt in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1 cup sugar and beat until stiff but not dry. Beat yolks, orange peel, orange juice concentrate and remaining 1/2 cup sugar in medium bowl until just blended, about 1 minute. Mix in 1/4 cup melted margarine. Fold yolk mixture into whites in 3 additions. Fold in pecan mixture in 3 additions. Pour batter into prepared bundt pan.
Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out dry, about 50 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 20 minutes. Turn cake out onto rack and cool completely. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover cake tightly and store at room temperature.)
Cut cake into wedges. Garnish with orange segments and whipped cream, if desired, and serve.

Pineapple Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting and Almonds 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 2/3 cups sugar
2 large eggs
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 20-ounce can crushed pineapple in syrup
1 cup chopped almonds, toasted
10 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1 2/3 cups powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan. In medium bowl, combine flour, baking soda, ginger and salt. In large bowl, beat 1 2/3 cups sugar, eggs and 1/4 cup butter until fluffy. Mix in pineapple with syrup and 1/2 cup almonds, then dry ingredients. Transfer to prepared pan. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool 20 minutes.
Beat cream cheese, powdered sugar and remaining 1/4 cup butter in medium bowl to blend. Spread frosting over warm cake. Sprinkle with remaining almonds.

Polish Rugelach 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 8-ounce package Neufchâtel cheese*, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
2 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sugar
2/3 cup (3 1/2 ounces) dried cranberries, finely chopped
2/3 cup (2 3/4 ounces) finely chopped toasted walnuts
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground allspice
1 large egg, beaten to blend
Additional sugar
*A light style of cream cheese available at most supermarkets.

Using electric mixer, beat butter and cheese in large bowl until light. Add sugar; beat until fluffy. Mix in flour and salt. Gather dough into ball and gently knead until smooth. Divide dough into 8 equal pieces. Gather each into ball; flatten into disks. Wrap in plastic and chill 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled. Let soften slightly before rolling.)
Mix 3/4 cup sugar, cranberries, walnuts, butter, cinnamon and allspice in small bowl to blend. Set aside.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Place 1 dough disk on floured work surface (keep remaining 7 dough disks refrigerated). Roll out dough to 8-inch round. Spread 3 tablespoons filling over round, leaving 1/2-inch border. Cut round into 8 wedges. Starting at wide end of each wedge, roll up tightly and completely to tip. Place cookies, tip pointing down, on ungreased baking sheet and form into crescents. Repeat with 3 more dough disks and filling. Brush cookies with egg. Sprinkle additional sugar over. Bake until golden, about 20 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool. Repeat with remaining 4 disks, filling, egg and sugar. (Can be made ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature up to 1 week, or freeze up to 1 month.)

Raisin Streusel Cake 
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted margarine, room temperature
2/3 cup sugar
4 1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom
2 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 cup matzo cake meal
1/2 cup matzo cake meal
1/2 cup potato starch
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
5 large egg whites, room temperature
1 1/3 cups sugar
5 large egg yolks
1/3 cup liquid nondairy creamer
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted margarine, melted, cooled
2 tablespoons grated lemon peel
1 1/2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2/3 cup raisins

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Coat 9x9-inch pan with 2-inch-high sides generously with margarine. Mix 1/4 cup margarine, sugar and spices in medium bowl. Gradually add matzo meal and mix until crumbly. Spread half of streusel on baking sheet and bake until golden and crisp, about 10 minutes. Cool and break into bits.
Combine first 4 ingredients in small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1 cup sugar and beat until stiff but not dry.
Using same beaters, beat egg yolks and remaining 1/3 cup sugar in another bowl until mixture is thick and slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are lifted. At low speed, beat in nondairy creamer, then margarine, lemon peel and lemon juice. Add dry ingredients and stir until well blended. Fold in egg whites in 2 additions.
Pour half of batter into prepared pan. Sprinkle baked streusel over. Sprinkle with half of raisins. Spread remaining cake batter over. Sprinkle with unbaked streusel and remaining raisins. Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out dry, about 40 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack. Cover with foil and let stand 1 hour to soften topping. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Keep covered and store at room temperature.) Cut into squares and serve.

Apple-Boysenberry Cake 
2 cups water
2 cups frozen unsweetened boysenberries or blackberries (about 8 ounces)
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup Passover brandy
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
4 1/2 pounds Golden Delicious apples (about 9 medium-large), peeled, cored, each cut into 12 wedges
1 13-ounce Passover sponge cake
2 cups sliced almonds, toasted
12 soft almond macaroons, finely crumbled (about 1 1/2 cups)
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted margarine, melted, cooled
1/2 cup apricot preserves
2 tablespoons Passover brandy
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
sugar
Additional toasted sliced almonds

Combine first 5 ingredients in heavy large saucepan. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves and syrup comes to simmer. Using slotted spoon, transfer berries to small bowl. Add half of apple slices to simmering syrup and cook until tender and just translucent, stirring occasionally, about 12 minutes. Using slotted spoon, transfer apples to sieve set over large bowl. Press apples to extract excess syrup. Reserve syrup. Transfer apples to another bowl. Repeat cooking and draining with remaining apples.
Return berries and drained syrup to same saucepan. Boil syrup until thickened and reduced to 1 2/3 cups, about 5 minutes. Transfer boysenberry sauce to small bowl. Cover and refrigerate.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Coat 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with margarine. Crumble cake onto large baking sheet. Bake until crumbs are dry and just beginning to color, about 15 minutes. Cool. Maintain oven temperature. Finely grind crumbled cake in processor.
Sprinkle 1/3 of cake crumbs in bottom of prepared pan. Sprinkle 2/3 cup almonds over. Sprinkle 1/3 of macaroons over. Top with half of apple slices. Mix apricot preserves and brandy in small bowl. Spread half of apricot mixture over apples. Repeat layering with half of remaining crumbs, almonds, macaroons and margarine. Press top firmly to compact cake.
Place cake on baking sheet. Bake until top is golden and cake just begins to shrink from sides of pan, covering loosely with foil for last 15 minutes if browning too quickly, about 45 minutes. Transfer cake to rack. Press top firmly to compact cake. Cool cake in pan on rack. Cover and chill overnight. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead.)
Run small sharp knife around sides of pan to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Whip cream and 3 tablespoons sugar to firm peaks. Spread cream over top and sides of cake. Press additional almond slices onto sides of cake. Refrigerate at least 1 hour and up to 4 hours.
Cut cake into wedges. Spoon reserved boysenberry sauce over.

Quick Apple Küchen 
1 18 1/4-ounce package yellow cake mix
1/2 cup sweetened flaked coconut
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 small pippin apples, peeled, cored, thinly sliced
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup sour cream
1 egg

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9x13-inch baking dish. Combine cake mix and coconut in large bowl. Add butter and cut in, using fingers or pastry blender, until mixture is crumbly. Press mixture onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of prepared baking dish. Bake until edges of crust are golden brown, about 10 minutes.
Arrange apples over crust. Sprinkle apples with 1/4 cup sugar and 1 teaspoon cinnamon. Whisk sour cream, egg and remaining 2 tablespoons sugar in small bowl to blend. Pour mixture evenly over apples. Bake until apples are tender and custard is set, about 40 minutes. Serve warm.

Frozen Almond-Raspberry Cake 
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
2 tablespoons finely chopped almonds
1 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 tablespoon sugar
Pinch of salt
1 pint vanilla almond crunch or vanilla frozen yogurt
1 pint raspberry sorbet
1 1/2-pint basket raspberries

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Mix first 5 ingredients in bowl. Press mixture into 8-inch-diameter springform pan. Bake until just golden brown on edges, about 10 minutes. cool completely.
Drop frozen yogurt and sorbet by alternating scoopfuls into prepared pan. Press yogurt and sorbet firmly to avoid air spaces. Cover with plastic and freeze until solid, about 4 hours.(Can be prepared 5 days ahead.)
Release sides of pan. Garnish top of cake with raspberries. Cut cake into wedges and serve.

German Lebkuchen Cake with White Chocolate Frosting 
2 to 3 large oranges
1/2 cup honey
2/3 cup orange juice
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup firmly packed golden brown sugar
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon ground cloves
3/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
3/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs, room temperature
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
2/3 cup half and half
1 tablespoon lemon juice
2/3 cup dried currants
12 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt), chopped
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
12 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
3 cups toasted sliced almonds
Orange slices or orange peel ribbon

Using vegetable peeler, remove peel (orange part only) from oranges in strips. Mince enough peel to measure 4 tablespoons. Mix honey, orange juice and 2 tablespoons orange peel (reserve remaining 2 tablespoons peel for cake) in heavy medium saucepan. Boil until reduced to 3/4 cup, about 10 minutes. Set honey syrup aside.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch square baking pan with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom with waxed paper. Butter paper. Dust pan with flour. Using electric mixer, beat first 8 ingredients in large bowl until fluffy. Mix in reserved 2 tablespoons minced orange peel. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Sift flour, baking soda and baking powder into medium bowl. Mix half and half and lemon juice in small bowl. Beat dry ingredients alternately with half and half mixture into butter mixture, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Mix in currants. Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake until toothpick inserted into center comes out clean, about 50 minutes. (Cake will not rise to top of pan.) Cool cake 20 minutes. Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen. Turn cake out onto rack; cool. Peel off paper. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover syrup and cake separately and let stand at room temperature.)
Melt chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring occasionally until smooth. Cool to barely luke warm. Using electric mixer, beat butter and cream cheese until light. Add chocolate and 1/4 cup honey syrup and beat until smooth and light. Chill until thick enough to spread, stirring occasionally, about 20 minutes.
Cut cake horizontally in half. Place bottom layer cut side up on platter. Brush with 1/4 cup honey syrup. Spread 1 1/4 cups frosting over. Brush remaining 1/4 cup syrup over cut side of top cake layer. Place cake cut side down atop filled layer. Set aside 2/3 cup frosting for garnish. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Press almonds around sides. Spoon remaining 2/3 cup frosting into pastry bag fitted with small star tip. Pipe frosting decoratively around top edge of cake. Chill cake until frosting sets, about 1 hour. Garnish with orange slices. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and chill. Let stand 2 hours at room temperature before serving.)

Pine Nut-Almond Macaroons 
1/4 cup Marsala
3 tablespoons dried currants
3/4 cup toasted slivered almonds
1/2 cup toasted pine nuts
2/3 cup sugar
1 tablespoon all purpose flour
1 large egg white
1/8 teaspoon (generous) almond extract
1 cup pine nuts (about 4 1/2 ounces)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line large cookie sheet with foil. Combine Marsala and currants in heavy small saucepan. Cook over medium heat until liquid evaporates, about 5 minutes. Cool.
Finely grind almonds and 1/2 cup toasted pine nuts with sugar and flour in processor. Mix egg white with extract in medium bowl. Add to processor and blend until dough forms ball. Place dough in bowl. Mix in currants. Shape dough between palms into 3/4-inch-diameter balls. Roll in 1 cup pine nuts to cover, pressing to adhere. Flatten each to 1 1/2-inch round. Space evenly on cookie sheet. Bake until golden brown about 15 minutes. Cool slightly. Remove cookies from foil using metal spatula and cool on rack. (Can be prepared 4 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Brownie Pudding Cake 
1 cup all-purpose flour
2/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
3/4 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
1 cup granulated sugar
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1/2 cup milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup chopped walnuts
3/4 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 1/3 cups boiling water
Accompaniment: coffee ice cream

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Into a bowl sift together the flour, 1/3 cup of the cocoa powder, the baking powder, and the salt. In another bowl whisk together the eggs, the granulates sugar, the butter, the milk, and the vanilla, add the flour mixture, and stir the batter until it is just combined. Stir in the walnuts and spread the batter evenly in an ungreased 8-inch-square baking pan. In a bowl whisk together the remaining 1/3 cup cocoa powder, the brown sugar, and the water, pour the mixture over the batter, and bake the cake in the middle of the preheated oven for 35 to 40 minutes, or until a tester comes out with crumbs adhering to it.
Serve the cake hot with the ice cream.

Lemon-Anise Pirquettes 
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup powdered sugar
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon aniseed, finely chopped
1/2 teaspoon fennel seeds, finely chopped
6 tablespoon (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large egg whites, room temperature
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup all purpose flour

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter large nonstick cookie sheet. Blend first 5 ingredients in processor 1 minute. Using electric mixer, cream butter in medium bowl until light. Gradually beat in sugar mixture, egg whites and vanilla. Add flour and beat until combined.
Drop 1 teaspoon batter onto prepared cookie sheet. Using back of spoon, spread into 3-inch round. Repeat 5 more times, spacing cookies evenly. Bake until cookies are golden brown on edges, about 5 minutes.
Immediately run tip of small knife under edge of 1 cookie. Using fingertips, pick up cookie at lifted edge and turn over onto work surface. Working quickly, roll cookie around handle of wooden spoon, pressing cookie against handle as you roll. Slide cookie off handle. Repeat rolling with remaining cookies on sheet, returning sheet briefly to oven if cookies begin to harden.
Rinse cookie sheet under cold water. Dry with towel. Lightly butter cookie sheet. Repeat making cookies with remaining batter in batches, rinsing, drying and buttering sheet between each batch. Cool cookies. (Can be prepared 2 weeks ahead. Transfer to airtight container; store at room temperature.)

Fruitcake with Ginger Cream Cheese 
a 3-ounce package cream cheese
1 tablespoon minced peeled fresh gingerroot
thin slices of fruitcake

In a bowl stir together the cream cheese, softened, and the gingerroot and chill the mixture for 30 minutes. Spread the ginger cream cheese on the fruitcake. Makes about 1/2 cup ginger cream cheese.

Chocolate-Dipped Orange and Ginger Florentines 
3 oranges
1/2 cup plus 4 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons whipping cream
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup firmly packed golden brown sugar
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
2/3 cup lightly toasted sliced almonds
1/4 cup all purpose flour
2 tablespoons finely chopped crystallized ginger
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate,chopped

Remove peel from oranges (orange part only) in strips using vegetable peeler. Finely chop enough peel to measure 2 teaspoons and set aside for cookie batter. Blanch remaining peel in small saucepan of boiling water 2 minutes. Drain. Return blanched orange peel strips to saucepan. Add 1/2 cup sugar and water and bring to boil, stirring frequently. Boil 5 minutes. Drain; reserve syrup for another use.
Sprinkle 2 tablespoons sugar on plate. Arrange orange peel strips atop sugar. Sprinkle with remaining 2 tablespoons sugar. Let stand 15 minutes. Remove peel from sugar. Finely chop enough peel to measure 2 tablespoons; reserve remainder for another use.
Preheat oven to 350&;amp;deg;F. Line 2 heavy large cookie sheets with foil. Lightly butter foil. Combine first 4 ingredients in heavy small saucepan. Cook over medium heat just until sugar dissolves, stirring constantly. Add 2 teaspoons minced unsugared peel, 2 tablespoons chopped sugared orange peel, almonds, flour and ginger. Bring mixture to boil, stirring frequently.
Drop 1 level tablespoon mixture (mixture will be runny) onto prepared cookie sheet. Repeat 5 more times, spacing cookies about 3 inches apart. Repeat procedure with second cookie sheet. Bake cookie until edges are pale golden, brown, about 8 minutes (cookies will spread). Remove cookie sheets from oven. Using 3-inch round cookie cutter, push cookie sides in to reshape cookies into 3-inch rounds. Slide foil off sheets. Cool cookies on foil. Turn foil over. Carefully peel off cookies. Line same cookie sheets with new foil. Repeat with remaining batter.
Line 2 cookie sheets with foil. Melt chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring occasionally until smooth. Remove from over water. Dip 1 cookie halfway into chocolate; shake off excess chocolate. Place cookie on prepared sheet. Repeat with remaining cookies. Refrigerate until chocolate sets, about 30 minutes. Remove cookies from foil. (Can be prepared 2 weeks ahead. Refrigerate in airtight container between sheets of waxed paper. Let cookies stand 20 minutes at room temperature before serving.)

Chocolate Pecan Layer Cake 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
6 large egg yolks
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup cake flour
1 1/2 cups pecans, toasted, finely chopped
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, grated
8 large egg whites
5 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 ounce unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
1 cup chilled whipping cream
3 tablespoons sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons bourbon
12 pecan halves

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter bottom of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Line pan bottom with parchment.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in medium bowl until light. Add 1/2 cup sugar; beat until fluffy. Add yolks 1 at a time, beating after each addition. Mix in vanilla. Add flour, mix just until blended. Mix in pecans and chocolate. Using electric mixer fitted with clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1/2 cup sugar; beat until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into yolk mixture in 3 additions.
Transfer batter to pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Cool on rack 15 minutes. Run knife around sides of pan to loosen. Release pan sides. Cool.
Combine all ingredients in top of double boiler set over simmering water (do not allow pan to touch water). Stir until smooth. Cool until lukewarm but still pourable, about 45 minutes. Meanwhile, prepare filling.
Combine cream, sugar and bourbon in medium bowl; beat until stiff peaks form.
Using serrated knife, cut cake into 3 layers. Place bottom layer on plate. Spread half of cream filling over. Top with second layer. Spread remaining filling over. Top with remaining layer, cut side down. Slowly pour glaze over cake, allowing some to drip down sides of cake. Garnish cake with pecan halves. Chill until glaze sets, about 30 minutes.

Apple Walnut Upside-Down Cake with Calvados Caramel Sauce 
3 to 3 1/2 Golden Delicious apples (about 1 1/2 pounds)
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter
2/3 cup sugar
1/2 cup coarsely chopped walnuts
1/2 Golden Delicious apple
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 stick (1/2 cup), unsalted butter, softened
2/3 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 tablespoons minced peeled fresh ginger
2 large eggs
1/2 cup sour cream
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup water
3 tablespoons Calvados or other apple brandy
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
whipped cream

Peel, core, and quarter apples.
In a well-seasoned 10 1/4 by 2-inch cast-iron skillet or a 10- by 2-inch non-stick skillet melt butter over moderately low heat just until melted (butter should not separate). Stir in sugar until combined well. Arrange apple quarters decoratively, cut sides up, in skillet and sprinkle walnuts evenly in between apples. Cook mixture, undisturbed, 25 to 35 minutes, or until apples are tender in centers and sugar is a golden caramel.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Peel apple and chop fine.
In a bowl whisk together flour, baking powder, salt and cinnamon.
In another bowl with an electric mixer beat butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in vanilla and ginger and add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in sour cream and with mixer on low speed beat in flour mixture gradually until just combined. Fold chopped apple into batter.
Remove skillet from heat and spoon batter evenly over topping. With a metal spatula spread batter (being careful not to disturb topping), leaving a 1/4-inch border of cooked apples uncovered. If using a non-stick skillet with a plastic handle, wrap handle in a double thickness of foil. Put skillet in a shallow baking pan and bake cake in middle of oven 25 to 35 minutes, or until a tester comes out with crumbs adhering and cake is golden brown. Cool cake in skillet on a rack 10 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge of skillet and carefully invert cake onto a plate.
Serve cake warm or at room temperature with caramel sauce and whipped cream.
In a dry heavy saucepan (about 2 quarts) cook sugar over moderate heat, stirring with a fork, until melted and cook without stirring, swirling pan, until a golden caramel. Remove pan from heat and carefully add water and brandy down side of pan (caramel will bubble and steam). Return pan to heat and simmer, stirring, until caramel is dissolved. Stir in butter. Sauce may be made 3 days ahead and chilled, covered. Reheat sauce to warm before serving.
Makes about 1 1/4 cups.

Frozen Almond Cappuccino Dacquoise 
1 cup shelled natural almonds (about 5 ounces), toasted lightly and cooled
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 1/2 teaspoons cornstarch
5 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 1/2 cups well-chilled heavy cream
1/3 cup instant espresso powder
6 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons Kahlúa or other coffee-flavored liqueur
1/2 pint raspberries

Preheat oven to 250 degrees F. Line 2 buttered baking sheets with foil or parchment paper and trace three 13- by 4-inch rectangles on foil or paper (2 on one sheet and 1 on other).
In a food processor grind almonds fine with 1/2 cup sugar and cornstarch. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat egg whites with cream of tartar and salt until they hold soft peaks. Beat in remaining 3/4 cup sugar in a slow stream, beating until meringue holds stiff, glossy peaks. Fold in almond mixture gently but thoroughly and transfer to a pastry bag fitted with a 1/2-inch plain tip. Starting along the inside edge of a rectangle, pipe meringue onto prepared foil, filling in rectangles.
Bake meringue layers in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets in oven halfway through baking, 1 to 1 1/4 hours, or until meringues are firm and dry when touched. Cool meringues on sheets on racks. Slide foil off sheets and carefully peel meringues off foil. Meringue layers may be made 1 day ahead and kept, tightly wrapped, at room temperature.
Cut a piece of cardboard 2 inches bigger than meringue layers and wrap in foil.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together filling ingredients until mixture just holds stiff peaks.
Put 1 meringue layer, smooth side down, on cardboard and with a long metal spatula spread a 1/2-inch-thick layer of filling over top. Repeat layering in same manner with another meringue and some filling and top filling with remaining meringue layer, smooth side up. Spread a thin layer of filling on top and sides of dacquoise and transfer remaining filling to a pastry bag fitted with a star tip. Pipe remaining filling decoratively around dacquoise and arrange raspberries on dacquoise. Freeze dacquoise, uncovered, until hard, about 6 hours. Dacquoise may be made 2 days ahead and frozen, wrapped in plastic wrap and foil after 6 hours.
Let dacquoise stand in refrigerator 30 minutes before serving. Slicing dacquoise with an electric knife (alternatively, use a serrated knife).

Stout Spice Cake with Lemon Glaze 
3 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons double-acting baking powder
1 tablespoon ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
3/4 teaspoon aniseed, ground in an electric spice grinder
3/4 cup unsulfured molasses
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled slightly
3/4 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
a 12-ounce bottle of stout
2 large eggs, beaten lightly
3/4 cup milk
2 cups chopped pecans, toasted lightly
1 cup confectioners' sugar
3 1/2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. and butter a glass baking dish, 12 by 8 by 2 inches. Into a large bowl sift together the flour, the salt, the baking soda, the baking powder, and the spices. In a bowl whisk together the molasses, the butter, the brown sugar, the stout, the eggs, and the milk and add the mixture to the flour mixture. Whisk the batter until it is combined and stir in the pecans. (The batter will be thin.) Pour the batter into the baking dish, bake the cake in the middle of the oven for 30 to 35 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean, and let it cool completely in the dish on a rack. Turn the cake out onto the rack.
In a small bowl whisk together the confectioners' sugar and the lemon juice, pour the glaze over the cake, and spread it with a metal spatula, letting it drip down the sides. Let the cake stand for 30 minutes, or until the glaze is set.

Butterscotch Pecan Thins 
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 large egg
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
about 48 pecan halves

In a bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy and beat in the egg and the vanilla. Into the bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, and the salt, beat the dough until it is firm enough to handle. Halve the dough and on a piece of wax paper form each half into a 6-inch log, using the wax paper as a guide. Chill the logs, wrapped in the wax paper, for at least 4 hours or overnight.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Cut the logs into 1/4-inch-thick slices with a sharp knife, arrange the slices 3 inches apart on lightly buttered baking sheets, and press a pecan half onto each cookie. Bake the cookies in batches in the middle of the oven for 10 to 12 minutes, or until they are golden, and let them cool on the baking sheets for 1 minute. Transfer the cookies to racks and let them cool completely.

Chocolate Chestnut Torte 
3/4 pound (about 2 cups) canned or vacuum-packed whole chestnuts, rinsed, drained well, and patted dry if using canned
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
4 tablespoons dark rum
10 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate, chopped and melted
6 large eggs, separated
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sugar
6 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate, chopped fine
1/2 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon dark rum
8 marrons glacés (candied chestnuts, available at specialty foods shops)
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream
1 tablespoon sugar, or to taste
1 tablespoon dark rum if desired
3/4 cup chopped marrons glacés

Line the bottom of a greased 9-inch springform pan with wax paper, grease the paper, and dust the pan with flour, knocking out the excess. In a food processor purée the chestnuts with the butter and the rum, scraping down the sides, until the mixture is smooth. Add the chocolate and blend the mixture until it is combined well. With the motor running, add the yolks, 1 at a time, and transfer the mixture to a large bowl. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat the whites with the salt until they hold soft peaks, add the sugar, a little at a time, beating, and beat the meringue until it holds stiff peaks. Whisk about one fourth of the meringue into the chocolate mixture to lighten it and fold in the remaining meringue gently but thoroughly. Pour the batter into the prepared pan, smooth the top, and bake the torte in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 45 to 55 minutes, or until a tester comes out with crumbs adhering to it and the top is cracked. Let the torte cool in the pan on a rack for 5 minutes, remove the side of the pan, and invert the torte onto another rack. Remove the bottom of the pan, reinvert the torte onto a rack, and let it cool completely. (The torte will fall as it cools.)
Put the chocolate in a small bowl, in a saucepan bring the cream to a boil, and pour it over the chocolate. Stir the mixture until the chocolate is melted and the glaze is smooth and stir in the rum. Dip each candied chestnut halfway into the glaze to coat it partially, transfer the chestnuts to a foil-covered tray, and let them set.
Invert the torte onto a rack set on wax paper, pour the glaze over it, smoothing the glaze with a spatula and letting the excess drip down the side, and let the torte stand for 2 hours, or until the glaze is set. Transfer the torte carefully to a serving plate and garnish it with the coated chestnuts.
In a chilled bowl with chilled beaters beat the cream until it holds soft peaks, beat in the sugar and the rum, and beat the mixture until it holds stiff peaks. Fold in the chopped candied chestnuts.
Serve the torte with the whipped cream.

Aunt Maude&s; Chocolate Drop Cookies 
2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup vegetable shortening
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 cup firmly packed golden brown sugar
1 large egg
1/2 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup coffee
1 1/2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 3/4 cups powdered sugar, sifted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease 2 heavy large baking sheets. Sift 2 cups flour, 1/2 teaspoon baking soda and 1/2 teaspoon salt into medium bowl. Stir 1/2 cup vegetable shortening and unsweetened chocolate in heavy small saucepan over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Transfer mixture to large bowl. Cool slightly. Add 1 cup brown sugar and beat until blended. Add egg and beat until blended. Stir in dry ingredients, then 1/2 cup sour cream and 1 teaspoon vanilla extract. Drop batter by tablespoonfuls onto prepared sheets, spacing evenly.
Bake until cookies feel firm to touch, about 10 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool. Drizzle warm icing decoratively over cookies.
Stir coffee and chopped chocolate in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Remove from heat. Whisk in powdered sugar. Use immediately.

Raspberry and Blueberry Vanilla Cheesecake 
1 1/2 cups ground shortbread cookies
1 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 vanilla beans, split lengthwise
1/3 cup whipping cream
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
4 large eggs
2 6-ounce baskets fresh raspberries
2 6-ounce baskets fresh blueberries
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 cup sour cream
3 tablespoons sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/3 cup seedless raspberry jam

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Finely grind ground cookies, nuts and sugar in processor. Add butter and vanilla; process until moist crumbs form. Press onto bottom and up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Wrap outside of pan with foil. Bake until crust is light golden, about 15 minutes. Cool. Maintain oven temperature.
Scrape seeds from vanilla beans into heavy small saucepan; add beans. Add cream and bring to boil. Cool completely. Discard beans.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Add vanilla-cream mixture, sour cream and vanilla extract and beat until well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time.
Gently mix 1 basket raspberries, 1 basket blueberries and cornstarch in medium bowl. Pour 2/3 of filling into crust. Sprinkle berry mixture over. Pour remaining filling over berries to cover. Bake until cake is golden and begins to crack around edges but still moves slightly in center when pan is shaken, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Let cool 10 minutes (cake will fall).
Mix sour cream, sugar and vanilla in small bowl to blend.
Gently press down any raised edges of cake. Spoon topping evenly over cake. Bake 10 minutes. Cool cake on rack. Refrigerate overnight. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
Melt jam in small saucepan over low heat. Brush some jam over top of cake. Arrange remaining berries atop cake. Gently brush berries with remaining jam. (Can be made 8 hours ahead. Keep chilled.)
Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Remove pan sides. Place cake on platter. Serve cold.

Pineapple Coconut Layer Cake 
2 1/3 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup milk
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
5 large eggs, beaten lightly
a 28-ounce can crushed pineapple in unsweetened juice
1 tablespoon cornstarch
a rounded 1/4 cup sugar
2 large egg whites
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup water
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 2/3 cups sweetened flaked coconut (a 7-ounce bag), toasted golden and cooled

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line bottoms of 2 buttered 9- by2-inch round cake pans with rounds of wax paper. Dust pans with flour, knocking out excess.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. In a glass measuring cup stir together milk and vanilla. In a bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed cream butter 1 minute and add sugar in a steady stream, beating until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes, scraping bowl occasionally. Beat in eggs, a little at a time, beating well after each addition, until pale and fluffy. Stir in flour mixture in 4 batches alternately with milk, beginning and ending with flour mixture and stirring after each addition until batter is smooth.
Divide batter between pans, smoothing tops, and bake in middle of oven until a tester inserted in center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cake layers in pans on racks 10 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge of each pan and invert cake layers onto racks. Remove wax paper carefully and cool cake layers completely. Cake layers may be made 5 days ahead and frozen, wrapped in plastic wrap and foil. Thaw cake layers in refrigerator 1 day before proceeding with recipe.
In a heavy saucepan stir together filling ingredients until cornstarch is dissolved. Bring mixture to a boil, stirring constantly, and simmer, stirring, 3 minutes. Cool filling completely. Filling may be made 3 days ahead and chilled, covered.
With a long serrated knife halve each cake layer horizontally. Stack cake layers on a cake plate, spreading filling between layers.
In a double boiler or in a large metal bowl with a hand-held electric mixer beat together all frosting ingredients except vanilla until combined. Set mixture over a saucepan of boiling water and beat on high speed until it holds stiff, glossy peaks, about 7 minutes. (Depending on mixer and weather this may take longer than 7 minutes.) Remove double boiler or bowl from heat and beat in vanilla. Beat frosting until cooled and spreadable.
Spread top and side of cake with frosting and coat cake with coconut.

Tea Brack 
2 bags black tea
1 cup boiling water
1 1/2 cups raisins
1 1/2 cups golden raisins
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup chopped candied orange peel
1 egg, beaten to blend
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground all spice
Pinch of ground cloves
Unsalted butter, room temperature

Place tea bags in large bowl. Add 1 cup boiling water and let steep 5 minutes. Remove tea bags. Add all raisins, sugar and orange peel to bowl. Cover and let stand overnight, stirring once or twice.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter bottom and sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Mix egg into tea mixture. Add flour, baking powder, salt, cinnamon, allspice and cloves and mix well. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until top is golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour and 15 minutes (bread will fill half to two-thirds of pan). Cool bread in pan on rack. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.) Release pan sides from bread. Slice bread; serve with butter.

Brownie Torte 
1 cup (6 ounces) semisweet chocolate chips
2 1/2 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into bits
1 large egg
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 cup chopped walnuts
coffee ice cream as an accompaniment

Butter and flour an 8-inch round cake pan. In a small metal bowl set over barely simmering water melt 3/4 cup of the chocolate chips and the butter, stirring until the mixture is smooth. In a bowl whisk together the egg, the sugar, and the vanilla until the mixture is foamy, whisk in the chocolate mixture and a pinch of salt, whisking until the mixture is smooth, and fold in the flour, the remaining 1/4 cup chocolate chips, and the walnuts. Spoon the batter into the pan, spreading it evenly, and bake the torte in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F oven for 15 to 20 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Transfer the torte to a rack, let it cool for 10 minutes, and serve it warm, cut into wedges, with the ice cream.

Tepee Birthday Cakes 
Sour Cream Chocolate Cake , top and sides left unfrosted
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
32 grissini (long very thin breadsticks), trimmed to 8 inches
3 tablespoons honey
1 cup confectioners' sugar plus additional for dusting white chocolate leather
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
3 to 4 teaspoons water
4 recipes White Chocolate Leather
8 thin red licorice laces
red hot candies
2 cups sweetened flaked coconut
a scant 1/4 teaspoon green food coloring

Cut cake into 8 wedges. Trim rounded end of each wedge to form a straight edge and on a paper plate stand each wedge on end, point up. Spread most of reserved frosting on all 4 sides of each wedge, reserving remaining frosting for glue for breadsticks. Cake wedges may be assembled up to this point 1 day ahead and chilled, covered loosely after frosting firms up. If made ahead, remaining frosting should be chilled and brought to room temperature before proceeding with recipe.
Spread cocoa powder on a sheet of wax paper. Working with 1 breadstick at a time, on another sheet of wax paper brush breadsticks with honey and roll in cocoa powder, tapping off excess. On paper plates arrange 4 breadstick around each wedge of cake, intersecting above the top of the wedge to form a frame for white chocolate leather and using reserved frosting to glue sticks to cake.
Into a small bowl sift together sugar and cocoa powder and whisk in 3 teaspoons water until smooth, adding remaining teaspoon water if necessary to form an icing that will pipe. Transfer icing to a resealable plastic bag and seal bag, pressing out excess air. Squeeze icing to one corner and snip off corner as close to edge as possible to make a small hole for piping icing.
Out of wax paper cut a trapezoid with 2 parallel sides measuring 12 inches and 10 inches, respectively, connected by two 6-inch-long sides.
Working with 1 piece at a time, dust white chocolate leather with sugar and on a surface dusted with additional sugar roll out into a 12- by 16-inch rectangle. Using trapezoid template cut out tent pattern, preferably with a fluted pastry wheel. Working quickly, pipe icing in decorative Native American designs on tent and wrap tent around tepee frame, crimping leather where breadsticks intersect. (If leather becomes too soft to pick up, chill on a baking sheet until just firm enough to handle.) Trim excess leather from tepee with pastry wheel and open flaps to expose cake. Chill each tepee cake as it is made. Tepee cakes may be made 2 days ahead and chilled, covered.
With a wooden pick or skewer make 2 holes in the top of each chilled tent for licorice lace. Run a piece of licorice lace through holes and tie once. Arrange red hot candies along base of tent, gluing them with some of remaining frosting.
In a bowl toss coconut with food coloring until colored evenly.
Spread coconut grass on a large serving tray. With a metal spatula carefully transfer each tepee to tray.

Hazelnut Plum Cake 
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup whole hazelnuts or natural almonds (about 2 ounces)
1/2 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
3 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 medium plums (about 1/2 pound), sliced thin
1 1/2 teaspoons granulated sugar
confectioners sugar for sifting over cake
Accompaniment: vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. and butter and flour an 8-inch round cake pan, knocking out excess flour.
In a small saucepan melt butter over moderate heat and cool. Stir in vanilla. In a food processor blend together nuts, brown sugar, and flour until nuts are ground fine.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat whites with salt until they hold stiff peaks and fold in nut mixture gently but thoroughly. Fold in butter mixture (batter will deflate) and spread batter in prepared pan.
Arrange plum slices evenly over batter and sprinkle with granulated sugar. Bake cake in middle of oven 20 to 25 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Turn cake out onto rack and cool, plum side up, 5 minutes.
Sift confectioner's sugar onto cake and serve cake warm with ice cream.

Granola and Dried Cranberry Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups granola
1/4 cup dried cranberries, chopped
1 cup (6 ounces) semisweet chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
In a bowl whisk together flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. In another bowl with an electric mixer cream butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in egg, beating until combined well, and beat in vanilla. Beat in flour mixture and stir in remaining ingredients.
Drop dough by rounded tablespoons 2 inches apart onto buttered baking sheets and bake in batches in middle of oven 12 to 15 inches, or until golden. Cool cookies on racks. Cookies keep in airtight containers 5 days.

Orange Almond Torte with Orange Sauce and Marsala Cream 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
1 large egg
2 large egg yolks
1 cup almonds, toasted, finely ground
1/2 cup all purpose flour
2 tablespoons orange juice
1/2 teaspoon ground coriander
Pinch of salt
2 large egg whites
1 cup chilled whipping cream
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
2 tablespoons sweet Marsala
Additional powdered sugar
1 cup fresh orange juice
1 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon grated orange peel

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter 8-inch-diameter springform pan. Line bottom of pan with parchment. Butter parchment; dust with flour. Beat 1/2 cup butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add sugar, beating until blended. Add egg, then yolks, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. At low speed, beat in almonds, flour, orange juice, peel, coriander and salt, scraping down sides of bowl occasionally.
Using clean dry beaters, beat whites in medium bowl until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into batter in 2 additions. Transfer to prepared pan.
Bake cake until top is golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack.(Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.)
Beat whipping cream and 2 tablespoons sugar in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Mix in Marsala.
Dust cake with powdered sugar. Cut cake into wedges and serve with Orange Sauce and Marsala cream.
Whisk juice and cornstarch in bowl until cornstarch dissolves. Melt butter in heavy small saucepan over medium-high heat. Whisk in sugar, orange peel and orange juice mixture. Whisk until sauce boils and thickens slightly, about 4 minutes. Remove from heat and cool. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and chill. Bring to room temperature before serving.)
Orange sauce makes about 1 1/4 cups.

Hazelnut Dome Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 2/3 cups blanched slivered almonds (about 11 ounces), toasted
1 3/4 cups hazelnuts (about 7 ounces), toasted
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup cake flour
9 large egg whites
10 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 cups whipping cream
2 cups chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons amaretto or other almond liqueur
1/2 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked, chopped (about 2 ounces)
1/3 cup finely chopped semisweet chocolate (about 2 ounces)
Unsweetened cocoa powder
Powdered sugar
Fresh raspberries and blackberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 15x10x1-inch baking sheet with vegetable oil spray. Line with parchment paper. Butter parchment. Combine nuts, sugar and flour in processor. Process until nuts are finely ground. Beat egg whites in large bowl until stiff peaks form. Fold nut mixture into whites in 3 additions (whites will deflate). Spread on prepared baking sheet. Bake until cake starts to pull away from sides of baking sheet and is light golden on top, about 35 minutes (cake will be slightly moist). Cool cake 10 minutes.
Line large baking sheet with parchment paper. Invert cake onto parchment. Cool cake completely.
Place chocolate in large bowl. Bring cream to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Pour over chocolate and whisk until smooth. Chill until firm enough to spread, at least 6 hours or overnight. (Cake and chocolate ganache can be made 1 day ahead. Cover cake tightly with plastic wrap; leave at room temperature. Keep ganache refrigerated. Let stand at room temperature until spreadable.)
Beat cream in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add sugar and 1/4 cup amaretto, beating until stiff peaks form. Fold in chopped hazelnuts and chocolate.
Line 2-quart bowl with plastic wrap, overlapping sides by 2 inches. Cut cake lengthwise into 1/3-inch-wide slices. Line bowl with cake, placing slices cut side down and tightly side by side in single layer, trimming to fit and completely covering bowl (if cake slices break, piece together to fit). Brush cake with 1 1/2 tablespoons amaretto. Spread ganache over cake, covering completely. Spoon hazelnut cream into center; smooth top. Cover filling with cake, placing slices side by side, fitting tightly together and trimming to fit. Brush with 1 1/2 tablespoons amaretto. Cover; chill at least 4 hours and up to 3 days.
Uncover cake. Invert onto platter. Remove plastic. Sift cocoa powder and powdered sugar over. Serve with berries.

Toasted-Coconut Streusel Coffeecake 
3/4 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon cinnamon
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, cut into bits and softened
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut, toasted lightly and cooled
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
3 large eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla
3 cups all-purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons double-acting baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups sour cream
2 cups sweetened flaked coconut, toasted lightly and cooled

In a bowl stir together the brown sugar, the flour, and the cinnamon, add the butter, and blend the mixture until it resembles coarse meal. Stir in the coconut and reserve the streusel.
In a bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter, add the brown sugar, and beat the mixture until it is light and fluffy. Add the eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and the vanilla and beat the mixture until it is combined well. In another bowl whisk together the flour, the baking powder, the baking soda, and the salt, add the flour mixture to the butter mixture alternately with the sour cream, beginning and ending with the flour mixture and beating the batter after each addition until it is just combined, and stir in the coconut.
Spoon half the batter into a buttered and floured tube pan, measuring 10 inches across the top and about 4 inches deep, with a removable bottom, spreading it evenly. Sprinkle half the reserved streusel over the batter and spoon the remaining batter into the pan, spreading it carefully over the streusel. Sprinkle the remaining streusel over the top and bake the cake in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 1 to 1 1/4 hours, or until the tester comes out clean. Let the cake cool in the pan on a rack for 10 minutes, remove the tube section from the pan, and run a thin knife under the cake to release the bottom. Lift the cake off the tube section of the pan with 2 long spatulas, let it cool completely on the rack, and transfer it to a serving plate.

Almond Crescents 
1 cup slivered almonds, toasted
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup powdered sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract

Finely grind nuts, flour and salt in processor. Using electric mixer, beat 1/2 cup powdered sugar, butter and vanilla and almond extracts in large bowl until light. Add nut mixture and beat just until blended. Cover; chill until firm, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 heavy large baking sheets. For each cookie, roll 1 rounded tablespoonful dough into cylinder; pinch ends to taper. Place in crescent shape on baking sheet. Bake until bottoms of cookies are just golden, about 15 minutes. Transfer baking sheets to racks. Cool cookies. Sift 1/4 cup powdered sugar over. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Peanut Butter Cookies with Milk Chocolate Chunks 
1 cup super-chunky peanut butter (do not use old-fashioned style or freshly ground)
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons dark corn syrup
1 large egg
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup all purpose flour
1/4 cup old-fashioned oats
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 cup roasted salted red-skinned Spanish peanuts
9 ounces milk chocolate, cut into 1/2-inch pieces

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 large baking sheets. Using electric mixer, beat first 7 ingredients in large bowl until fluffy. Mix flour, oats and baking soda in small bowl. Add to peanut butter mixture; beat to blend. Stir in nuts and chocolate.
For each cookie, drop 1 slightly rounded tablespoon dough onto prepared sheet and top each with second slightly rounded tablespoon dough, pressing slightly. Freeze 10 minutes. Bake until cookies are light golden, about 15 minutes. Transfer to racks; cool.

Pineapple Rum Trifle Cake 
parchment paper
1/4 cup (1 1/2 ounces) shelled natural pistachios or blanched almonds
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
5 large eggs
2/3 cup sugar
two 20-ounce cans unsweetened crushed pineapple
rum sabayon
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream
2 teaspoons sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Oil bottom and sides of a 15 1/2 x 10 1/2 x 1-inch jelly-roll pan and line bottom and sides with parchment paper.
In a food processor finely grind nuts with flour and salt. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together eggs and sugar until thick and pale and mixture forms a ribbon when beaters are lifted (about 10 minutes with a standing mixer or about 15 with a hand-held mixer). Fold flour mixture into egg mixture gently but thoroughly. Spread batter evenly in jelly-roll pan and bake in middle of oven until golden and springs back when lightly touched, 10 to 15 minutes. Cool cake layer in pan on a rack. Cake layer may be made 3 days ahead and kept wrapped well in plastic wrap at cool room temperature.
In a food processor pulse undrained pineapple 3 seconds. Drain pineapple in a sieve set over a bowl (you will have about 2 cups) and reserve juice for another use.
Invert cake layer onto a work surface and peel off parchment. With a long serrated knife trim layer to form a 14 x 7-inch rectangle, reserving trimmings. Halve rectangle crosswise to form two 7-inch squares and carefully halve squares horizontally (for a total of four 7-inch squares). Horizontally halve reserved trimmings.
Put 1 square on a cake plate. With a spatula spread 1/2 cup pineapple evenly over square. Top pineapple with 1/2 cup sabayon, spreading evenly. Make more layers in same manner with remaining 3 squares, pineapple, and sabayon, ending with sabayon. Piece together enough reserved trimmings to form a fifth square over sabayon. Chill cake, covered, at least 1 hour and up to 2 days.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat cream with sugar until it just holds soft peaks and with a spatula spread whipped cream over top and sides of cake. Cake may be fully assembled 1 day ahead and chilled in a cake keeper or covered with an inverted bowl. Bring cake to room temperature before serving (about 30 minutes).

Pecan Chocolate Cookies Bartell 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup packed dark brown sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (6 ounces) semisweet chocolate chips
1/2 cup chopped pecans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Have ready 3 ungreased baking sheets.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat butter with brown sugar until light and fluffy and beat in egg and vanilla. Into mixture sift flour, baking powder, and salt and beat dough until just combined. Stir in chocolate chips and pecans.
Roll heaping tablespoons of dough into balls and arrange about 2 inches apart on baking sheets. With fork flatten balls into 2-inch rounds and bake in batches in middle of oven 12 to 15 minutes, or until pale golden. Transfer cookies to rack to cool.

No-Fail Chocolate Chippers 
2 cups old-fashioned rolled oats
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) butter, room temperature
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup chopped walnuts
1 11.5-ounce package (about 2 cups) milk chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Finely grind oats in processor. Add flour, baking soda and salt and blend 5 seconds.
Beat butter and both sugars in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs and vanilla. Mix in dry ingredients. Mix in walnuts and chocolate chips.
For each cookie, form 2 rounded tablespoons dough into ball and place on ungreased baking sheets; flatten slightly. Bake until edges are golden brown, about 12 minutes. Cool on sheets 5 minutes. Transfer to racks; cool completely.

Almond Shortbread Cookies 
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 8 pieces
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
Pinch of salt
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1/4 cup sliced almonds (about 1 ounce)

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Place 9-inch-diameter metal pie pan in freezer to chill. Combine butter, brown sugar, vanilla and salt in processor. Blend until smooth, about 20 seconds. Add flour and cornstarch. Using on/off turns, process until dough clumps together. Press dough evenly onto bottom of chilled pie pan. Sprinkle almonds over; press almonds lightly into dough to adhere. Freeze until chilled, about 5 minutes.
Bake shortbread until edges are golden brown, about 22 minutes. Transfer pan to rack. Cut warm shortbread into 8 wedges; cool completely in pan. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover; store at room temperature.)

Chocolate Cheesecake 
12 ounces semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
1/3 cup water
1 tablespoon orange-flavored liqueur, such as Grand Marnier
4 large eggs
1 3/4 cups sugar
2 pounds cream cheese, at room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract

Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter an 8-inch round springform pan that is at least 2 inches deep.
In a heavy pot, melt the chocolate with the water and liqueur. When melted, remove from the heat and let stand until cool.
In a large mixing bowl, using a handheld elecric mixer at medium speed, beat the eggs with the sugar until well combined, 3 to 5 minutes. Gradually beat in the cream cheese, 1/4 pound at a time, until the mixture is very smooth, 5 minutes. Beat in the cooled chocolate and the vanilla. Spread the batter evenly in the prepared pan.
Bake in the preheated oven until the top edges of the cheesecake are puffed and golden brown, about 1 hour. Let the cake cool in the pan for 30 minutes. Run a sharp knife around the inside of the pan to release the cheesecake from the sides (if they haven't already pulled away during the cooling process). Remove the sides of the springform, cover the cake with plastic wrap, and refrigerate for 30 minutes before serving. Bring to room temperature before serving, unless it is a very hot day, in which case, take it out of the fridge at the last minute and enjoy it cold.

Halloween Spice Cake 
2 cups molasses
1 cup unsalted butter, at room temperature
1/4 cup strong brewed coffee
4-3/4 cups cake flour
2 teaspoon sea salt
1 teaspoon ground allspice
1 teaspoon ground cloves
4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
4 teaspoons ground ginger
2 teaspoons ground mace
2 teaspoons freshly grated nutmeg
1-1/2 teaspoons baking soda
4 tart apples such as Cox Orange Pippins, Fuji, or Winesaps
2 cups packed dark brown sugar
2 large eggs
2 cups sour cream
3/4 cup semi-sweet chocolate chips or Lindt chocolate cut into small pieces

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly oil a 13x9x2-inch baking pan.
2. Combine the molasses, butter, and coffee in a medium-size saucepan, and bring to a boil over medium-high heat, stirring occasionally. As soon as it boils, remove from the heat. Transfer the mixture to a large bowl, or the bowl of an electric mixer, and let cool to lukewarm.
3. Sift the flour, salt, spices, and baking soda together onto a large piece of waxed paper.
4. Core, peel, and halve the apples, then slice them into 1/4-inch thick slices. Line the prepared pan with the apples slices, slightly overlapping them. Sprinkle them with the brown sugar.
5. Whisk the eggs into the molasses mixture. Add the dry ingredients and mix quickly but thoroughly. Then add the sour cream, mixing just until it is incorporated. Fold in the chocolate chips, and then pour the cake batter over the apple slices.
6. Bake in the center of the oven until the cake is mounded in the center and your finger leaves a slight indentation when you touch it, 50-55 minutes. Remove the pan from the oven and transfer it to a wire rack to cool to lukewarm before serving. You may also serve it at room temperature, but it is best lukewarm.
7. To serve, cut the cake in pieces and turn them out of the pan upside down, so the apple slices are on top, or turn the entire cake out upside down onto a large serving platter and serve.

Low-Fat Almond-Cinnamon Biscotti 
3 large eggs
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 teaspoon almond extract
3 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup chopped toasted almonds
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease 18x12x1-inch baking sheet. Combine first 4 ingredients in bowl of heavy-duty electric mixer fitted with paddle attachment. Beat until well blended. Mix flour, almonds, cinnamon, baking soda and salt in medium bowl. Gradually add to egg mixture, beating until blended (dough will be soft).
Turn dough out onto floured surface and gather together. Roll dough between palms and work surface into 16-inch-long log. Transfer to prepared sheet. Flatten log to 1-inch thickness. Bake until light brown and cracked on top, about 30 minutes. Transfer sheet to rack; cool log 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Transfer warm log to work surface. Using serrated knife, cut log on sharp diagonal into 1/4- to 1/3-inch-thick slices. Arrange on baking sheets. Bake 10 minutes per side. Transfer to racks and cool (biscotti will harden while cooling). (Can be made ahead. Store airtight up to 1 week.)

Strawberry Cheesecake with Gingersnap Crust 
3 cups gingersnap cookie crumbs
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 large eggs
2 cups fresh strawberries, hulled, halved

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Blend cookie crumbs, sugar and butter in processor until well mixed. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and halfway up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 1/2-inch-high sides. Bake crust until set, about 10 minutes. Transfer to rack.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in vanilla. Add eggs and beat just until blended.
Pour filling into crust-lined pan. Bake until sides of cheesecake are slightly puffed and begin to crack, and center moves slightly when pan is shaken gently, about 1 hour. Transfer cake to rack. Cool completely. Cover; chill overnight.
Release pan sides from cheesecake. Arrange strawberries around outer edge of cheesecake. Cut into wedges.

Chestnut Cake with Maple Icing 
1 cup all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups peeled roasted chestnuts (about 12 ounces) or jarred chestnuts (about 8 ounces)
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup pure maple syrup
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 large eggs
3/4 cup powdered sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 tablespoons pure maple syrup
3 drops maple extract (optional)

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter and flour 8x8x2-inch baking pan. Mix flour, baking powder and salt in small bowl. Coarsely chop enough chestnuts to measure 1 cup. Set aside. Finely mash remaining chestnuts with fork in medium bowl. Add 3/4 cup brown sugar, butter, maple syrup and vanilla to mashed chestnuts. Using electric mixer, beat until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in flour mixture. Stir in half of chopped chestnuts. Spread batter in prepared pan. Sprinkle with remaining chopped chestnuts, then remaining 1 tablespoon brown sugar.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out with some moist crumbs attached, about 22 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack.
Stir powdered sugar, butter, 3 tablespoons maple syrup and maple extract, if desired, to blend in small bowl. Thin with remaining maple syrup, 1 teaspoon at a time, until icing is smooth and forms thick ribbons when poured. Spread icing over cool cake. Let stand until icing is set, about 20 minutes. Cut cake into squares. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Chocolate-Swirl Cheesecake 
7 ounces chocolate cookie wafers (about 27 cookies)
1/2 cup husked toasted hazelnuts (about 2 1/2 ounces)
2 tablespoons sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1 6-ounce package semisweet chocolate chips
2 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
4 large eggs, room temperature
1/2 cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1/4 cup sour cream
2 tablespoons Frangelico (hazelnut liqueur) or Cognac
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Lightly butter 9-inch springform pan. Finely grind cookies, nuts and sugar in processor. Add butter and process until well blended. Press crumb mixture into bottom and 1 inch up sides of pan.
Melt chocolate chips in heavy small saucepan over very low heat, stirring constantly. Remove from heat. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until light and fluffy. Gradually beat in sugar. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add sour cream and remaining 3 ingredients and beat until just blended. Pour half of batter into medium bowl. Add melted chocolate to batter in medium bowl and mix well.
Pour all but 2 tablespoons chocolate batter into prepared crust. Cover with plain batter. Using tip of knife, swirl batters together. Drizzle remaining 2 tablespoons chocolate batter over. Bake until tester inserted in center comes out clean, about 1 hour (cake may crack). Cool completely on rack. Cover with plastic and refrigerate overnight. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead.)
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, sugar, sour cream, Frangelico and vanilla in medium bowl until smooth. Transfer to pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Pipe decorative border around edge of cake. (Can be prepared 8 hours ahead. Chill.)

Christmas Lane Cake 
3 1/4 cups sifted all purpose flour
3 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup whole milk
8 large egg whites
3/4 cup bourbon
3/4 cup dried tart cherries
3/4 cup finely chopped dried apricots
8 large egg yolks
1 1/3 cups sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup pecans, toasted, chopped
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut
4 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 1/2 (3-ounce) packages cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup powdered sugar
3 tablespoons bourbon
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
Pecan halves (optional)
Dried apricot halves

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter and flour four 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line pans with waxed paper. Sift first 4 ingredients into medium bowl. Beat butter and 1 1/2 cups sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in vanilla. Beat in flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with milk in 2 additions. Using clean dry beaters, beat whites in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1/2 cup sugar, beating until whites are stiff but not dry. Fold 1/3 of whites into butter mixture. Fold in remaining whites in 2 additions. Divide batter among pans (batter will be about 1/2 inch deep).
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks; peel off paper. Cool completely.
Mix bourbon, cherries and apricots in small bowl. Cover; let stand at room temperature until most of bourbon is absorbed and fruit softens, at least 3 hours and up to 1 day.
Using electric mixer, beat yolks and sugar in medium bowl until mixture falls in heavy ribbon when beaters are lifted, about 5 minutes. Beat in butter. Transfer yolk mixture to heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium-low heat until thermometer registers 160 degrees F and mixture is thick, about 15 minutes. Remove from heat; mix in nuts, coconut and fruit mixture. Chill until cold, about 4 hours. Mix in chocolate. (Cake layers and filling can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap cakes; store at room temperature. Cover filling; chill.)
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread with 1/3 of filling. Repeat layering of cake and filling 2 more times. Top with final cake layer, pressing slightly.
Chill cake.
Beat cream cheese and 1/4 cup powdered sugar in medium bowl until smooth. Beat in bourbon and vanilla. Beat cream and 1/2 cup powdered sugar in large bowl until soft peaks form. Add cream cheese mixture to whipped cream; beat until stiff enough to spread.
Spread frosting over top and sides of cake. If desired, place pecans around edge of cake. Using rolling pin, flatten apricot halves between sheets of plastic wrap. Cut out leaf shapes. Arrange on cake. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome; chill.)

Pecan Caramel Cheesecake 
seven 5- by 2 1/2-inch graham crackers
1/2 cup coarsely chopped pecans, toasted and cooled
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
2 pounds cream cheese, softened
1 1/2 cups firmly packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
4 large eggs
1/2 cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup granulated sugar
1 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup pecan halves, toasted lightly and cooled

In a food processor grind graham crackers and pecans fine and in a bowl stir together with butter. Press mixture into bottom of a 9- by 2 1/2-inch springform pan. Chill crust 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat cream cheese until light and fluffy. Add brown sugar gradually, beating until combined well. Beat in flour and add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add sour cream, vanilla, and salt, beating until combined well.
Pour filling into crust and bake in middle of oven 1 hour, or until edges are just set but middle trembles slightly. (Cheesecake will continue to set as it cools.) Turn off oven and cool cheesecake in oven with oven door propped open about 6 inches until cooled completely, about 2 hours.
In a dry heavy saucepan cook 1/2 cup sugar over moderately low heat until melted. Cook sugar, swirling pan, until a deep caramel. Add remaining 1/2 cup sugar and cream and simmer, stirring occasionally, until caramel dissolves. Simmer mixture, without stirring, until it registers 225 degrees F. on a candy thermometer and remove from heat. Stir in butter and vanilla and cool to room temperature.
Pour topping over cheesecake, spreading evenly. Arrange pecans decoratively on top and chill cheesecake, covered, overnight. Remove side of pan.

Gingerbread Roulade with Caramel and Glaceed Fruits 
6 large eggs, separated
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1 tablespoon mild-flavored (light) molasses
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 1/2 teaspoons ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon salt
teaspoon cream of tartar
Powdered sugar
1/4 cup brandy
3/4 cup chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup chilled sour cream
1/4 cup powdered sugar
1 tablespoon brandy
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup whipping cream
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 cups powdered sugar
3/4 teaspoon ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 cup sugar
3 tablespoons water
1/2 tablespoon light corn syrup
Glac ed Fruits

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 15 1/2x10 1/2x1-inch baking sheet. Line with waxed paper; butter and flour paper.
Using electric mixer, beat yolks and 3/4 cup sugar in large bowl until mixture falls in heavy ribbon when beaters are lifted, about 5 minutes. Beat in melted butter, molasses and vanilla. Sift flour, baking powder, spices and salt over yolk mixture; fold in gently. Using clean dry beaters, beat whites and cream of tartar in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 2 tablespoons sugar, beating until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into yolk mixture in 3 additions. Spread batter evenly in prepared sheet.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Cut around baking sheet sides to loosen cake. Lay kitchen towel on work surface; dust with powdered sugar. Turn cake out onto towel; peel off paper. Brush cake with brandy. Starting at 1 long side, roll up warm cake together with towel jelly-roll style. Cool cake in towel.
Beat all ingredients in medium bowl until stiff peaks form. Unroll cake. Spread with filling. Roll up cake only (not towel). Place seam side down on long platter and refrigerate.
Stir brown sugar and cream in heavy small saucepan over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves and mixture simmers. Place in freezer until cold, about 15 minutes. Beat butter, powdered sugar and spices in medium bowl until fluffy. Beat in cold brown sugar mixture. Spread frosting all over cake. Chill until set, at least 2 hours. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover; chill.)
Stir sugar, water and corn syrup in heavy small saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves, occasionally brushing pan sides with wet pastry brush. Increase heat and boil without stirring until syrup is deep amber color, swirling pan occasionally, about 5 minutes. Using teaspoon and working quickly, drizzle caramel over cake. (Can be prepared 6 hours ahead; chill.)
Serve cake with fruits, if desired.

Individual Maple and Mascarpone Cheesecakes 
2/3 cup (about) raw sugar*
2 cups pure maple syrup
1/2 cup whipping cream
12 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1/3 cup sugar
4 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 pounds mascarpone cheese**
Fresh berries (optional)
Fresh mint sprigs (optional)
Raw sugar, also called turbinado or demerara sugar, is available at natural foods stores and most supermarkets.
Mascarpone cheese is an Italian cream cheese sold at Italian markets and many supermarkets nationwide.

Butter twelve 3/4-cup custard cups. Sprinkle raw sugar in each buttered cup, turning to coat bottom and sides and tapping out excess raw sugar. Arrange prepared custard cups in large roasting pan.
Bring maple syrup to boil in heavy large deep saucepan over medium-high heat. Reduce heat to medium and boil gently until maple syrup is reduced to 1 cup, stirring occasionally, about 30 minutes (syrup will bubble vigorously). Remove saucepan from heat and stir in whipping cream (mixture will bubble up high). Return saucepan to medium heat and simmer until any crystallized bits dissolve and mixture is reduced to 1 cup, stirring constantly, about 5 minutes. Cool completely.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then beat in vanilla extract. Add mascarpone cheese and beat just until blended and smooth. Add cooled maple syrup mixture to cheese mixture and beat until well blended.
Pour batter into prepared custard cups, dividing equally. Add enough hot water to roasting pan to come halfway up sides of custard cups. Bake until cheesecakes are light golden on top and centers move slightly when custard cups are gently shaken, about 1 hour. Cool in water bath 15 minutes. Remove custard cups from water bath. Refrigerate uncovered overnight. (Cheesecakes can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover with plastic wrap and keep refrigerated.)
Run small sharp knife around sides of cheesecakes to loosen. Place dessert plate atop 1 cheesecake. Invert cheesecake onto plate; shake gently to release. Repeat with remaining cheesecakes. Garnish each with fresh berries and fresh mint sprigs, if desired. Serve cold.

Bittersweet Chocolate and Almond Cake 
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
3/4 cup slivered almonds, toasted
3 tablespoons cake flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
5 large eggs
1 1/3 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Stir chocolate and butter in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until smooth. Cool mixture to lukewarm.
Finely grind 1/2 cup almonds, flour and salt in processor. Using electric mixer, beat eggs, sugar and vanilla in large bowl until thick, about 2 minutes. Fold in almond mixture, then chocolate mixture. Pour batter into prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs attached, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack (center will fall). Press edges down with fork to level top. Cover; refrigerate at least 2 hours and up to 1 day.
Cut around cake; remove pan sides. Beat cream in large bowl to firm peaks. Mound cream atop cake; sprinkle with remaining 1/4 cup almonds.

Biddy's Flapjacks 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup firmly packed golden brown sugar
1/4 cup dark corn syrup
2 cups old-fashioned oats
1/2 cup chopped toasted hazelnuts (about 2 ounces)
1/4 cup shelled sunflower seeds

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 9-inch square baking pan with foil, leaving 2-inch overhang. Melt butter, sugar and syrup in heavy medium saucepan over medium-low heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Mix in oats, nuts and sunflower seeds. Transfer mixture to prepared pan. Press down firmly to form even layer. Bake until golden brown, about 25 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool. Using foil sides as aid, lift cookie out of pan. Carefully cut into squares. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Frozen Lime Torte with Summer Fruit 
2 cups walnuts, toasted
2 cups almonds, toasted
2/3 cup firmly packed brown sugar
1 teaspoon grated lime peel
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) butter, melted
1 1/3 cups sugar
3/4 cup whole milk
8 large egg yolks
2/3 cup fresh lime juice
2 1/2 teaspoons grated lime peel
6 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt), finely chopped
4 cups chilled whipping cream
2 16-ounce packages frozen blackberries, thawed
1 1/3 cups raspberry juice or other berry juice blend
3/4 cup sugar
1 cup chilled whipping cream
2 tablespoons sugar
3 cups assorted fruit (such as raspberries, blueberries, blackberries, strawberries, sliced peeled mango, pineapple, kiwifruit and peaches)
Fresh mint leaves
Additional assorted fruit

Finely chop first 4 ingredients in processor, using on/off turns. Add butter and blend until moist crumbs form. Transfer 3 1/2 cups nut mixture to 10-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 1/2-inch-high sides; transfer remaining nut mixture to 6-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 1/2-inch-high sides. Using plastic wrap as aid, press crumbs firmly up sides, then over bottom of each pan, covering completely. Freeze.
Combine first 5 ingredients in medium metal bowl. Place bowl over saucepan of simmering water (do not allow bottom of bowl to touch water). Whisk constantly until candy thermometer registers 170 degrees F, about 5 minutes. Remove bowl from over water. Add white chocolate and whisk until melted and smooth. Freeze lime mixture until cold and thickened, whisking occasionally, about 45 minutes.
Beat cream in large bowl until stiff. Pour lime mixture over whipped cream; using rubber spatula, fold lime mixture and cream together. Divide between crust. Cover and freeze overnight.
Bring all ingredients to boil in heavy medium saucepan, stirring frequently. Cool slightly. Puree mixture in batches in processor. Strain through sieve set over bowl, pressing on solids. Chill until cold. (Can be made 1 day ahead.)
Using electric mixer, beat cream and sugar in large bowl until peaks form. Run sharp knife around pan sides to loosen torte tiers. Release pan sides. Center 6-inch tier on its pan bottom atop 10-inch tier. Spread whipped cream over sides (not tops) of tiers, covering crusts completely. Freeze until firm, about 30 minutes. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Wrap in plastic; keep frozen.)
Transfer tiered torte to platter. Mound fruit decoratively atop torte. Garnish with mint. To serve, slide spatula under 6-inch tier and transfer to work surface. Cut tiers into wedges. Serve with sauce and additional fruit.

Chocolate Chip Cookies with Oatmeal and Pecans 
1 cup (2 sticks) margarine
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups plus 2 tablespoons all purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 1/2 cups quick-cooking oats
2 cups semisweet chocolate chips (about 12 ounces)
1 cup chopped pecans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly grease 2 heavy large baking sheets. Beat margarine and both sugars in large bowl until fluffy and well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, the vanilla. Sift flour, baking soda and salt over margarine mixture and stir to blend. Mix in oats, the chocolate chips and pecans.
Working in batches, drop dough by rounded tablespoonfuls onto prepared sheets. Bake cookies until golden brown, about 14 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead. Store cookies airtight at room temperature.)

Strawberry Rhubarb Shortcakes 
1 1/2 pounds rhubarb, trimmed and cut into 3/4-inch pieces (about 4 cups)
1/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons fresh orange juice
1 pint strawberries, hulled and sliced
2 cups all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon double-acting baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons cardamom
1 1/2 tablespoons freshly grated orange zest
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into bits
2 tablespoons cold vegetable shortening
1/4 cup milk
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream
1 to 2 tablespoons sugar, or to taste
1/2 teaspoon orange-flower water (available at specialty foods shops) or vanilla, or to taste

In a heavy saucepan combine the rhubarb, the sugar, and the orange juice and simmer the mixture, stirring occasionally, for 5 to 10 minutes, or until the rhubarb is tender. Transfer the mixture to a bowl, stir in the strawberries, and let the mixture cool. Chill the filling, covered, for at least 2 hours or overnight.
Into a bowl sift together the flour, the sugar, the salt, the baking powder, and the cardamom and blend in the orange zest, the butter, and the shortening until the mixture resembles meal. In a small bowl whisk together the milk, the egg, and the vanilla, add the milk mixture to the flour mixture, and stir the mixture with a fork until it just forms a dough. Turn the dough out onto a floured surface and knead it gently for 20 seconds. Pat the dough into a 6-inch round, cut it into 6 wedges, and transfer the wedges to a buttered baking sheet. Bake the shortcakes in the middle of a preheated 425 degrees F. oven for 12 to 15 minutes, or until they are golden, transfer them to a rack, and let them cool.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat the cream until it just holds soft peaks and add the sugar, beating. Beat in the orange-flower water and beat the cream until it holds stiff peaks. Split the shortcakes horizontally with a fork, arrange the bottom halves on 6 plates, and spoon the filling over them. Spoon the whipped cream over the filling and cover it with the top halves of the shortcakes.

Vanilla Angel Food Cake with Mango-Ginger Sauce 
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup sifted cake flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups egg whites (about 11 large)
2 teaspoons warm water
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Powdered sugar
Thinly sliced crystallized ginger (optional)
Mango-Ginger Sauce

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Sift 1/2 cup sugar, flour and salt into medium bowl 5 times. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites in large (at least 4-quart) bowl until foamy. Add 2 teaspoons warm water and cream of tartar and beat until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1 cup sugar and vanilla and beat until stiff but not dry. Sift sugar-flour mixture over whites 1/4 cup at a time and gently fold in.
Transfer batter to ungreased 12-cup angel food cake pan with removable bottom (do not use nonstick pan).
Bake until cake is light golden, top springs back when touched lightly and cake begins to pull away from sides of pan, about 45 minutes. Remove cake from oven. Turn cake pan upside down; place center tube of pan over narrow bottle neck or funnel. Cool cake completely.
Using knife, cut around sides and center tube of pan to loosen cake. Push up cake. Cut cake from bottom of pan. Transfer to platter. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap tightly with plastic and store at room temperature.) Dust cake with powdered sugar. Garnish with crystallized ginger, if desired. Serve with Mango-Ginger Sauce.

Bobbie Mills's Cinnamon Cake 
2 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising)
2 teaspoons baking powder
4 teaspoons cinnamon
2/3 cup vegetable shortening, softened
1 1/3 cups sugar
2/3 cup milk
3 large eggs
an 8-ounce package cream cheese, softened
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3 3/4 cups confectioners' sugar
1 teaspoon freshly grated lemon zest
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. and butter and flour two 8-inch round cake pans, knocking out excess flour.
In a bowl whisk together flour, baking powder, and cinnamon. In another bowl with an electric mixer beat together shortening and sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in milk and beat in eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add flour mixture and beat until smooth. Divide batter between pans, smoothing tops, and bake in middle of oven 30 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Cool layers in pans on a rack 10 minutes and invert onto rack to cool completely.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together cream cheese and butter until smooth. Gradually beat in confectioners' sugar until combined and beat in lemon zest and juice.
Assemble cake, spreading frosting between layers and on top and side.

Santori 
3 cups sugar
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 1/4 teaspoons salt
3/4 cup vegetable oil
3 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
4 large Granny Smith apples
1 1/2 cups walnuts
3 cups all-purpose flour
Accompaniment: vanilla ice cream or whipped cream

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. and butter a 13- by 9- by 2-inch glass baking dish. Into a large bowl sift together sugar, baking soda, cinnamon, and salt and whisk in oil, eggs, and vanilla until smooth. Peel and core apples and slice about 1/4 inch thick (there should be about 6 cups). Coarsely chop walnuts. Add apples and walnuts to batter and stir until coated well. Stir in flour just until combined well and spread batter evenly in baking dish.
Bake cake in middle of oven 1 hour and 40 to 50 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean, and cool completely in baking dish on a rack. Cake keeps, wrapped in plastic wrap and chilled, 1 week.
Cut apple walnut cake into squares and serve at room temperature with ice cream or whipped cream.

Almond Spice Cookies 
2 cups whole natural almonds
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 sticks (1 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into bits
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 whole large egg, beaten lightly
1 1/2 teaspoons freshly grated lemon zest
3 tablespoons cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
an egg wash made by beating together 2 large egg yolks
1/2 cup finely chopped blanched almonds

In a food processor pulse whole almonds with 1/2 cup sugar until ground fine. In a large bowl with a pastry blender or with your fingertips blend butter and flour until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add remaining 3/4 cup sugar, almond mixture, whole egg, zest, cinnamon, and cloves and stir until mixture forms a smooth dough. (Work dough well by hand if necessary.) Chill dough, wrapped in plastic wrap, at least 2 hours and up to 1 day.
Line baking sheets with foil.
Divide dough into 4 pieces. Lightly flour 1 piece of dough, keeping remaining dough chilled and wrapped in plastic wrap, and on a lightly floured surface roll out dough 1/4 inch thick. With a 1 1/2- to 2-inch cutter cut out cookies, chilling scraps, and arrange about 1/2 inch apart on baking sheets. Make more cookies with 3 remaining pieces of dough and scraps, pressed together, in same manner. Let cookies stand, uncovered, at room temperature at least 4 hours and up to 12.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Brush cookies lightly with egg wash and sprinkle with blanched almonds. Bake cookies in batches in lower third of oven 15 to 20 minutes, or until golden, and cool on racks. Cookies keep in an airtight container at room temperature 2 weeks.

Orange Nut Bread 
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup frozen orange juice concentrate, thawed
1/4 cup water
1 1/4 cups sugar
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
1/2 cup chopped toasted almonds
1 1/2 teaspoons grated orange peel

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 8 1/2 x 4 1/2 x 2 1/2-inch loaf pan; dust with flour. Sift flour, baking powder and salt into small bowl. Combine orange concentrate and 1/4 cup water in another small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl 1 minute. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in flour mixture alternately with orange concentrate mixture in 3 additions each. Mix in almonds and orange peel. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake bread until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Cool bread in pan on rack 5 minutes. Turn out onto rack and cool completely. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Wrap in plastic and store at room temperature.)

Apricot Butter Cookies 
3/4 cup (about 1/4 pound) dried apricots
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon dark rum
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup firmly packed brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 large egg
1 cup confectioners' sugar
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice

In a small saucepan combine the apricots, 1/4 cup of the granulated sugar, and 2/3 cup of water, simmer the mixture for 15 to 18 minutes, or until the mixture is reduced by half, and add the rum. Let the mixture cool slightly and in a blender purée it.
In a bowl whisk together the flour, the baking powder, and a pinch of salt. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together the butter, the remaining 1/2 cup granulated sugar, and the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, beat in the vanilla and the egg, and beat the mixture until it is combined well. Add the flour mixture and beat the dough until it is just combined. Form the dough into a log, chill it for 1 hour, and divide it into 8 pieces.
Working with 1 piece of dough at a time, on a sheet of plastic wrap form the pieces into 8-inch ropes, wrapping the plastic wrap around the ropes to keep the dough from sticking, and on 2 baking sheets pat the rope into a 8- by 1 1/2-inch rectangles. Make a canal down the center of each rectangle with your finger and spread the apricot purée in the canals. Bake the rectangles in 2 batches in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 18 to 20 minutes, or until the edges are golden, transfer them to racks, and let them cool. In a small bowl whisk together the confectioners' sugar, the lemon juice, and enough water to make a thick but pourable icing, drizzle the icing over the rectangles diagonally into 1-inch strips. The cookies keep in an airtight container for 1 week.

White and Milk Chocolate Mousse Cake 
4 large eggs
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup self-rising flour
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking powder
16 tablespoons plus 1/3 cup chilled whipping cream
4 ounces white chocolate, chopped
4 ounces milk chocolate, chopped
2 tablespoons orange juice
2 tablespoons orange liqueur
9 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) chocolate, chopped
2 tablespoons water
2 teaspoons instant espresso powder

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pan with waxed paper. Dust with flour. Using electric mixer, beat eggs and sugar in large bowl until thick, about 5 minutes. Sift flour, cocoa powder and baking powder over egg mixture; gently fold together. Pour batter into pan. Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Turn out onto rack; peel off paper. Cool.
Whisk 3 tablespoons cream and white chocolate in heavy small saucepan over very low heat until smooth. Remove from heat. Repeat with 3 tablespoons cream and milk chocolate. Cool.
Beat 10 tablespoons cream in large bowl until stiff peaks form. Fold half of whipped cream into each chocolate mixture. Chill 15 minutes.
Mix juice and liqueur in small bowl. Cut cake into 3 equal layers. Transfer 1 layer to platter, cut side up. Brush top with 2 tablespoons orange mixture. Spread milk chocolate mousse over. Repeat layering with 1 cake layer, remaining orange mixture and white chocolate mousse. Top with third cake layer, cut side down. Cover; chill until set, at least 4 hours.
Whisk 1/3 cup cream, bittersweet chocolate, water and espresso powder in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until smooth. Drizzle over cake; smooth over tops and sides. Chill until set, about 30 minutes. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Let stand 1 hour before serving.)

Iced Cappuccino Cream Cake 
1 cup chocolate wafer crumbs
1/4 cup blanched almonds, toasted lightly, cooled completely, and ground fine
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1/4 cup sugar
1 pound ground fresh coffee
1 envelope of unflavored gelatin
4 large eggs, separated, the whites at room temperature
3/4 cup plus 1 teaspoon sugar
1/4 cup heavy cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon kahlúa
3 tablespoons sugar

In a bowl combine well the crumbs, the almonds, the butter, and the sugar, press the mixture onto the bottom and about 1 inch up the side of an 8 1/2-inch springform pan, and bake the crust in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 10 to 12 minutes, or until it is just set. Let the crust cool in the pan on a rack.
In a large bowl combine the coffee grounds with 4 cups cold water and let them soak overnight. Pour the mixture into a sieve, lined with a paper towel or a paper coffee filter and set over a bowl, and let it drain, pressing hard on the grounds, for 2 hours. (There should be about 3/4 cup coffee concentrate.) Add enough water to measure 1 1/4 cups total.
In a saucepan sprinkle the gelatin over the coffee mixture, let it soften for 1 minute, and heat the mixture over low heat, stirring, until the gelatin is dissolved. In a bowl beat the yolks with 1/2 cup of the sugar until the mixture is thick and pale, add half the coffee mixture in a stream, whisking, and whisk the mixture into the remaining coffee mixture. Cook the mixture over moderate heat, whisking, until it is thickened and registers 175 degrees F. on a candy thermometer. Transfer the mixture to a metal bowl set in a larger bowl of ice and cold water, whisk in the cream and the vanilla, and let the mixture cool, stirring frequently, until it is just cool to the touch and is the consistency of raw egg whites. Remove the metal bowl from the larger bowl. In another bowl beat the egg whites until they hold soft peaks, add 1/4 cup of the remaining sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating, and beat the meringue until it holds stiff peaks. Stir one fourth of the meringue into the coffee mixture and fold in the remaining meringue gently but thoroughly. Pour the filling into the crust. In a small bowl combine the remaining 1 teaspoon sugar and the cinnamon, sprinkle the mixture over the filling, and chill the filling for at least 6 hours or overnight.
In a chilled bowl with chilled beaters beat the cream until it holds soft peaks, add the Kahlúa and the sugar, a little at a time, beating, and beat the topping until it holds stiff peaks.
Transfer the topping to a pastry bag fitted with a decorative tip, pipe it decoratively over the coffee mixture, and sprinkle it with the cinnamon. Chill the cake for 2 hours. Run a thin knife around the edge of the pan, remove the side carefully, and transfer the cake to a serving plate.

Frozen Lemon Cream Meringue Cake 
4 large egg whites at room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon cornstarch
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice (about 2 lemons)
1 tablespoon freshly grated lemon zest
1 whole large egg plus 6 large egg yolks
1 cup plain yogurt
1 1/2 teaspoons unflavored gelatin
3 tablespoons orange-flavored liqueur
1 1/2 cups heavy cream
lemon slices and unsprayed lemon leaves for garnish

Line a buttered baking sheet with parchment paper or foil and on it trace 2 squares, using the top and bottom of a 9-inch-square pan as a guide (one square will be slightly larger than the other). In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat the whites with a pinch of salt until they hold soft peaks, add the sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating, and beat the whites until they hold stiff, glossy peaks. Transfer the meringue to a pastry bag fitted with a 1/2-inch tip, pipe it to fill in the squares, and smooth the tops. Bake the meringues in the middle of a preheated 275 degrees F. oven for 1 hour, or until they are firm when touched lightly and very pale golden. Remove the meringues with the parchment from the baking sheets, let them cool, and peel off the parchment carefully. With a serrated knife trim the meringue layers so that the smaller one will just fit inside the bottom of the pan and the larger will just fit inside the top of the pan. Reserve the trimmings.
Oil the pan with vegetable oil and line it with plastic wrap, leaving about a 5-inch overhang all around. Put the smaller meringue layer, smooth side down, in the lined pan. Stir the reserved meringue trimmings, crumbled, into the lemon cream, pour the filling into the pan, smoothing it, and top it with the remaining meringue layer, smooth side up, pressing gently. Fold the plastic-wrap overhang over the top to enclose the cake. Freeze the cake, wrapped well, overnight, or until it is frozen solid.
In a small saucepan sprinkle the gelatin over the orange-flavored liqueur, let it soften for 1 minute, and heat the mixture over low heat, stirring, until the gelatin is dissolved. In a bowl beat the cream until it just holds stiff peaks, add the gelatin mixture in a stream, beating, and beat the icing until it holds stiff peaks.
Unwrap the cake and unmold it onto a serving plate, discarding the plastic wrap. Spread a thin layer of the icing on the top and sides of the cake. Transfer the remaining icing to a pastry bag fitted with a decorative tip (such as basketwork one) and pipe it over the cake. Chill the cake for no more that 1 1/2 hours, decorate it with the lemon slices and leaves, and cut it into squares with a serrated knife.
In a heavy saucepan melt the butter with the sugar, the cornstarch, the lemon juice, and the zest over moderately low heat, stirring until the sugar is dissolved. In a bowl whisk together lightly the whole egg and the yolks and add the butter mixture in a stream whisking. Transfer the mixture to the pan and cook it over moderately low heat, whisking constantly, for 3 to 5 minutes, or until the curd is thick enough to hold the mark of the whisk and the first bubble appears on the surface. Transfer the curd immediately to a bowl, cover its surface with plastic wrap, and let the curd cool. Chill the curd, covered with the plastic wrap, for 1 hour, or until it is cold. Whisk the yogurt into the curd, chill the lemon cream, and serve it with berries or as a filling for frozen lemon cream meringue cake. Makes about 3 cups.

Lemon-Whiskey Bundt Cake 
1 18.5-ounce package yellow cake mix
1 3.4-ounce package instant lemon pudding mix
4 large eggs
1 cup milk (do not use low-fat or nonfat)
3/4 cup whiskey
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
1 cup chopped pecans
2 teaspoons all purpose flour
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter 10- to 12-cup Bundt pan; dust with flour.
Stir cake mix and pudding mix in large bowl to blend. Beat in eggs, then milk, 1/4 cup whiskey, oil and lemon peel. Mix nuts with flour in small bowl; mix into batter. Transfer to prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 50 minutes. Set pan with cake on rack while preparing glaze.
Stir sugar, butter and remaining 1/2 cup whiskey in heavy small saucepan over medium-low heat until butter melts, sugar dissolves and syrup bubbles, about 5 minutes. Spoon hot syrup over cake. Cool cake completely in pan. Turn cake out of pan. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and store airtight at room temperature.)

Lemon Almond Spongecake 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons double-acting baking powder
1/2 cup finely ground blanched almonds
5 large eggs, separated
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons freshly grated lemon zest
4 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon almond extract

Line a greased jelly-roll pan, 15 1/2 by 10 1/2 by 1 inches, with wax paper, grease the paper, and dust the pan with flour, knocking out the excess. Into a bowl sift together the flour, the salt, and the baking powder and whisk in the almonds. In the bowl of an electric mixer beat together the egg yolks, 3/4 cup of the sugar, and the zest until the mixture is very thick and pale, beat in the lemon juice, the vanilla, and the almond extract, and beat the mixture for 3 to 5 minutes, or until it forms a ribbon when the beater is lifted. Add the flour mixture and beat the batter until it is just combined. In another bowl with cleansed beaters beat the egg whites with a pinch of salt until they form soft peaks, beat in the remaining 1/4 cup sugar, a little at a time, and beat the whites until they form stiff peaks. Whisk one third of the whites into the batter to lighten it and fold in the remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Spread the batter evenly in the prepared pan and bake it in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 15 to 20 minutes, or until the cake is golden and a tester comes out clean. Let the cake cool in the pan for 5 minutes, invert it onto a rack, and discard the wax paper. Invert the cake onto another rack and let it stand, uncovered, overnight to dry out. Cut the cake with a serrated knife into 3/4-inch cubes.

Grilled Pound Cake with Sour Cherry and Pecan Ice Cream 
3/4 cup dried sour cherries (about 4 ounces)
1 cup boiling water
5 tablespoons brandy
1 1/2 pints vanilla ice cream, softened slightly
4 1/2 tablespoons coarsely chopped semisweet chocolate (about 2 1/2ounces)
1/3 cup coarsely chopped toasted pecans
1 16-ounce loaf pound cake
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted

Place cherries in medium bowl. Pour 1 cup boiling water over. Let stand until softened, about 10 minutes. Drain and pat dry. Mix cherries and 1 tablespoon brandy in small bowl.
Place ice cream in large bowl. Mix in cherries, semisweet chocolate and pecans. Cover ice cream mixture. Freeze until firm, about 2 hours.
Prepare barbecue (medium heat). Cut pound cake into sixteen 1/2-inch slices. Brush both sides of each cake slice with melted butter. Grill slices until lightly toasted, about 30 seconds per side. Place 2 cake slices on each of 8 dessert plates. Place 1 scoop ice cream atop cake slices on each plate. Drizzle 1 1/2 teaspoons brandy over each serving.

Vanilla Bean Cheesecake with Cranberry Jewel Topping 
12 vanilla sandwich cookies (such as Vienna Fingers; 6 1/2 ounces), broken into pieces
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces, room temperature
1/4 cup sugar
2 vanilla beans, split lengthwise
1/2 cup whipping cream
1 1/2 pounds cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
Pinch of salt
4 large eggs
1 12-ounce bag fresh or frozen cranberries
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup frozen cranberry juice cocktail, thawed
1/4 cup water

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees  F. Wrap outside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with foil. Blend cookies, butter and sugar in processor until crumbs stick together. Press crumbs on bottom and halfway up sides of prepared pan. Bake crust 10 minutes. Set aside. Maintain oven temperature.
Using tip of small sharp knife, scrape seeds from vanilla beans into small saucepan; add beans. Add cream. Bring to simmer over medium heat. Set aside uncovered, and cool to room temperature. Discard beans.
Blend cheese, sugar and salt in processor until very smooth, stopping often to scrape down sides of work bowl. Add vanilla cream and blend. Add eggs; process 5 seconds. Scrape down sides of work bowl; process just until blended, about 5 seconds. Transfer filling to crust.
Bake cake until sides puff slightly and center is just set, about 50 minutes. Place uncovered hot cheesecake directly into refrigerator and chill thoroughly, at least 6 hours or overnight.
Stir all ingredients in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat; boil 3 minutes. Press mixture through sieve set over large bowl, pressing firmly on solids. Spoon warm topping over cold cake; spread evenly. Chill until topping is set, at least 2 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep chilled.)

Pumpkin Roll Cake with Toffee Cream Filling and Caramel Sauce 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3/4 cup cake flour
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 1/4 teaspoons ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon ground allspice
6 large eggs, separated
1/3 cup sugar
1/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2/3 cup canned solid pack pumpkin
1/8 teaspoon salt
Powdered sugar
2 tablespoons dark rum
1 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
1 cup chilled whipping cream
3 tablespoons powdered sugar
10 tablespoons plus 1/2 cup English toffee pieces (or chopped English toffee candy; about 7 ounces)
Additional powdered sugar
1 1/2 purchased caramel sauce, warmed

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Spray 15x10x1-inch baking sheet with vegetable oil spray. Sift flour, cinnamon, ginger and allspice into small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat egg yolks, 1/3 cup sugar and 1/3 cup brown sugar in large bowl until very thick, about 3 minutes. On low speed, beat in pumpkin, then dry ingredients. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites and salt in another large bowl until stiff but not dry. Fold egg whites into batter in 3 additions. Transfer to prepared pan. Bake cake until tester is inserted comes out clean, about 15 minutes.
Place smooth (not terry cloth) kitchen towel on work surface; dust generously with powdered sugar. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto kitchen towel. Fold towel over 1 long side of cake. Starting at 1 long side, roll up cake in towel. Arrange cake seam side down and cool completely, about 1 hour.
Pour 2 tablespoons rum into heavy small saucepan; sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand until gelatin softens, about 10 minutes. Stir over low heat just until gelatin dissolves. Beat chilled whipping cream and 3 tablespoons powdered sugar in large bowl until firm peaks form. Beat in gelatin mixture. Fold in 6 tablespoons English toffee pieces.
Unroll cake; sprinkle with 4 tablespoons English toffee pieces. Spread filling over. Starting at 1 long side and using kitchen towel as aid, roll up cake to enclose filling. Place cake seam side down on platter. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with foil and refrigerate.)
Trim ends of cake on slight diagonal. Dust cake with powdered sugar. Spoon some of warm sauce over top of cake. Sprinkle with 1/2 cup toffee. To serve, cut cake crosswise into 1-inch-thick slices. Pass remaining sauce.

Chocolate Chip'wiches 
1 cup all purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
2 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup walnuts
2 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped, or 1/3 cup mini chocolate chips
Sugar
1 pint ice cream of choice
3 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine first 6 ingredients in processor and blend. Add butter and vanilla. Process until mixture resembles fine meal and begins to stick together, using on/off turns. Add walnuts and process until finely chopped. Mix in chocolate.
Transfer mixture to sheet of waxed paper. Press together. Top with another sheet of waxed paper. Roll out 1/4 inch thick. Cut out cookies using 2 1/2-inch round cookie cutter. Transfer to ungreased cookie sheet. Gather scraps, reroll and cut additional cookies. Sprinkle cookies with sugar. Bake until just beginning to color, about 22 minutes. Cool on cookie sheet on rack 5 minutes. Carefully transfer cookies to rack and cool. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)
Soften ice cream slightly in refrigerator. Turn 8 cookies over and gently spread 1/4 cup ice cream atop each. Top with 8 cookies, sugared side up. Freeze until firm.
Melt 3 ounces semisweet chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring until smooth. Dip fork in chocolate and drizzle in free-form lines over top of sandwiches. Freeze until chocolate design is firm. (Can be prepared up to 3 days ahead. Cover and freeze.) Soften slightly in refrigerator before serving if frozen very solid.

Peach Patty-Cakes with Cream 
1 cup chilled whipping cream
10 tablespoons sugar
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
4 firm ripe peaches
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup chilled solid vegetable shortening, cut into small pieces
3 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1/2 cup (or more) cold milk

Beat whipping cream with 5 tablespoons sugar and vanilla until stiff peaks form. Cover and refrigerate.
Mix lemon juice with 1 tablespoon sugar in medium bowl. Peel and pit peaches. Slice thinly into bowl. Toss to coat with lemon mixture.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Combine flour, baking powder, salt and remaining 4 tablespoons sugar in large bowl. Using fingertips or fork, work in shortening and butter until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add 1/2 cup milk and stir just until dry ingredients gather together, adding more milk 1 tablespoon at a time if mixture is dry.
Transfer dough to floured surface and knead 3 times. Divide into 4 equal pieces. Pat first piece of dough into 1-inch-thick round. Place on ungreased cookie sheet. Mark an X on top of round using sharp knife. Repeat with remaining dough. Bake until patty-cakes are light brown, about 22 minutes. Cool on sheet 5 minutes.
Split warm patty-cakes crosswise. Place bottom halves into deep bowls. Spoon peaches and juices from bowl over each, dividing evenly. Top each with some whipped cream. Cover with tops. Spoon more cream over and serve.

Macadamia Coconut Cake 
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 1/4 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 large egg whites
1/3 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar
3/4 cup macadamia nuts
3 large egg yolks
3/4 cup milk
2 tablespoons cornstarch
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup chilled heavy cream
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup water
2 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sweetened shredded coconut for coating cake
macadamia nuts brushed with honey for garnish

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line bottom of a buttered 9-by-2 inch round cake or springform pan with a round of wax paper and butter paper. Dust pan with flour, knocking out excess.
In a bowl with an electric mixer cream butter with 2/3 cup sugar until light and fluffy. Onto a sheet of wax paper sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. Stir flour into butter mixture alternately with milk in batches, beginning and ending with flour. Stir in vanilla and blend batter until just combined well.
In another bowl with clean beaters beat egg whites until they hold soft peaks. Beat in remaining 1/3 cup sugar gradually and beat meringue until it holds stiff peaks. Stir one fourth meringue into batter to lighten and fold in remaining meringue gently but thoroughly.
Spread batter evenly in prepared pan and bake in middle of oven 30 to 35 minutes, or until cake begins to pull away from side of pan and a tester comes out clean. Cool cake in pan on a rack 10 minutes. Invert cake onto rack and cool completely. Cake may be made 1 day ahead and kept at room temperature, tightly wrapped.
In a dry heavy skillet cook 1/3 cup sugar over moderate heat, undisturbed, until it begins to melt. Cook, stirring with a fork, until melted completely and a light caramel. Add macadamia nuts and cook, stirring, until nuts are coated well and caramel is deep golden. Pour praline onto a sheet of foil and cool completely. Break praline into pieces and in a food processor grind fine. (Do not purée to a paste.)
In a small saucepan whisk together remaining 3 tablespoons sugar, egg yolks, milk, and cornstarch. Bring pastry cream to a boil over moderate heat, whisking, and cook over low heat, whisking constantly, 2 minutes. Whisk in vanilla. Transfer pastry cream to a bowl and chill until cold, its surface covered with plastic wrap. (Pastry cream will be very stiff.)
In a bowl beat heavy cream until it just holds stiff peaks. Whisk pastry cream to loosen and whisk in praline. Fold in whipped cream and chill while making frosting.
In a metal bowl set over a pan of simmering water whisk together frosting ingredients until mixture is warm and sugar is dissolved. With a portable electric mixer on high beat frosting 6 to 7 minutes, or until thick and fluffy. Remove bowl from heat and beat frosting until cooled slightly.
With a long serrated knife cut cake horizontally into 3 layers. Spread filling between layers on a cake plate and spread cake with frosting. Coat cake with coconut. Cake may be made 6 hours ahead and chilled, covered loosely. Garnish cake with macadamia nuts.

Mango-Pineapple-Lime Cheesecake with Ginger Crust 
1 1/3 cups ground gingersnaps cookies
1 3 1/2-ounce jar toasted macadamia nuts
1/4 cup packed golden brown sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons chopped crystallized ginger
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 tablespoon minced lime peel
2/3 cup sour cream
6 tablespoons fresh lime juice
4 large eggs
1 mango, peeled, pitted, sliced
3 kiwi fruit, peeled, sliced
1 small pineapple, peeled, quartered, cored, thinly sliced (leaves reserved)

Preheat oven to 350  degrees F. Generously butter 9-inch-diameter spring-form pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Finely grind first 4 ingredients in processor. Add butter; blend until crumbs are moistened. Press mixture on bottom and 1 3/4 inches up sides of pan. Bake until crust is set, about 8 minutes. Transfer to rack, cool. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, sugar and lime peel in large bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in sour cream and lime juice. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until blended.
Pour filling into crust. Bake until edges are firm but center 2 inches of cheesecake still moves slightly when pan is shaken, about 1 hour 20 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool 10 minutes. Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Cover, chill overnight.
Place mango around top edge of caked. Place kiwi, then pineapple in center. Garnish with pineapple leaves.

Anise Cookie Baskets with Riesling Ice Cream and Fresh Fruit 
1 1/2 cups cream
1/2 cup half and half
2/3 cup sugar
4 large egg yolks
1 cup late harvest Riesling wine
1/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
1 teaspoon finely chopped aniseed
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon grated orange peel
3 tablespoons egg whites
1/4 cup all purpose flour
1 1-pint basket strawberries, stemmed, quartered
1 cup small pineapple wedges
1 kiwi fruit, peeled, cut into wedges
Fresh mint leaves

Bring 1/2 cup cream and 1/2 cup half and half to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Whisk sugar and yolks in medium bowl to blend. Whisk in hot cream mixture. Return mixture to saucepan; stir over medium-low heat until custard thickens and leaves path on back of spoon when finger is drawn across, about 4 minutes, do not boil. Strain into bowl. Mix in wine and 1 cup cream. Chill custard until cold.
Process custard in ice cream maker according to manufacturer's instructions. Transfer to covered container (ice cream will be soft) and freeze. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead.)
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly butter and flour heavy large nonstick baking sheet. Whisk first 6 ingredients in medium bowl. Whisk in egg whites and flour.
Drop slightly rounded tablespoon of batter onto center of half of prepared baking sheet. Drop another slightly rounded tablespoon of batter onto center of second half of prepared baking sheet. Using back of spoon, spread each mound of batter to 6-inch round. Bake cookies until brown on edges (centers will be slightly pale), about 8 minutes.
Working quickly and using metal spatula, lift 1 cookie off sheet. Immediately turn cookie over onto inverted custard cup. Gently flatten cookie on cup bottom; crimp sides of cookie. Repeat with second cookie. Remove cookies from cups. Rinse baking sheet under cold water; wipe sheet dry. Repeat process with remaining batter, first rinsing and drying, then buttering and flouring baking sheet between batches. (Cookies can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)
Place cookie baskets on plates. Fill each with 3 small scoops of ice cream.
Top with fruit and mint leaves.

Mocha Crunch Ice Cream Cake 
1 1/2 cups water
1/2 cup sugar
2 1/2 tablespoons instant espresso powder
12 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter
3 cups macaroon cookie crumbs (about 21 Mother's brand cookies)
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
2 pints chocolate ice cream
2 pints coffee ice cream
3/4 cup chopped Almond Roca or Heath bars (about 14 Almond Roca or 12 miniature Heath bars, about 5 ounces)

For sauce: Cook water, sugar and espresso in heavy medium saucepan over low heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Add chocolate and butter. Stir until chocolate and butter are melted and sauce is smooth. Cool completely. (Sauce can be prepared 3 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Bring sauce to room temperature before using.)
For crust: Oil 9-inch springform pan. Mix 2 cups crumbs and butter in medium bowl. Press firmly into bottom of prepared pan. Freeze until firm.
For filling: Soften chocolate ice cream in refrigerator until spreadable but not melted. Spread in pan and smooth top. Freeze until firm.
Spoon 1/2 cup sauce over ice cream and sprinkle with remaining 1 cup cookie crumbs. Freeze until firm.
Soften coffee ice cream in refrigerator until spreadable but not melted. Spread in pan. Smooth surface and freeze until firm. Spread 1/2 cup sauce over coffee ice cream. Sprinkle with Almond Roca and freeze until firm. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Cover tightly.)
Soften cake slightly in refrigerator if necessary. Rewarm remaining sauce over low heat until lukewarm, stirring frequently. Remove pan sides. Cut cake into wedges. Serve, passing warm mocha sauce separately.

Easy Vanilla Wafers 
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/3 cup Vanilla Sugar
1/4 cup egg whites
1/3 cup unbleached all purpose flour
Pinch of salt
2 cups sugar
1 vanilla bean, cut into small pieces
Use this sugar to add a fresh-tasting vanilla flavor to all your favorite recipes. It's especially good when used to sweeten whipped cream.

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Generously butter heavy large cookie sheets. Beat 1/4 cup butter and sugar in medium bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in egg whites. Gradually mix in flour and salt (batter will be soft.) Drop batter by level teaspoonfuls onto prepared cookie sheets, spacing 3 inches apart. Bake until edges are golden brown and centers of cookies are still pale, about 7 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Store in airtight container.)
Process sugar and vanilla bean in processor until vanilla bean is very finely minced. Strain sugar to remove any large pieces of vanilla bean. Store sugar in airtight container. Makes 2 cups.

Whipped Cream Cakes with Peaches and Raspberries 
1 large whole egg
1 large egg yolk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup granulated sugar
2/3 cup well-chilled heavy cream
3/4 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
confectioners' sugar for dusting the cakes
fresh peaches, peeled and sliced, for garnish
fresh raspberries for garnish

In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together the whole egg, the yolk, the vanilla, and 1/4 cup of the granulated sugar until the mixture is thick and pale. In a bowl beat the cream with cleaned beaters, adding the remaining 1/4 cup granulated sugar, until the mixture holds soft peaks. Fold the egg mixture into the whipped cream mixture. Into another bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, and the salt and fold the flour mixture into the cream mixture.
Divide the batter among 6 buttered and floured 1/2-cup muffin tins and bake the cakes in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 18 to 20 minutes, or until they are golden. (The batter will flow over the rims slightly.) Let the cakes cool in the tins on a rack for 10 minutes and turn them out onto the rack, leaving them upside down. Dust the cakes with the confectioners' sugar and serve them with the peaches and the raspberries.

Pineapple Ice-Cream Cake with Coconut Topping 
about eight 3- by 2- by 1/2-inch pieces of pound cake
1 1/2 cups chopped fresh pineapple
3/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon cornstarch
3 large egg yolks
1 large whole egg
1 1/2 cups milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 cups well-chilled heavy cream
2/3 cup well-chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons sour cream
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut, toasted lightly and cooled
1/4 cup sweetened flaked coconut, toasted lightly and cooled

In the bottom of an 8 1/2-inch springform pan arrange the cake, cutting the pieces to fit in one layer, and freeze it while making the ice cream.
In a heavy saucepan combine pineapple and 1/4 cup of the sugar and simmer the mixture, stirring until the sugar is dissolved, for 5 minutes. Drain the pineapple mixture in a fine sieve set over a bowl, reserving the syrup for another use. In a bowl whisk together the remaining 1/2 cup sugar, the cornstarch, a pinch of salt, the yolks, and the whole egg and add the milk, scalded, in a stream, whisking. In a heavy saucepan bring the custard to a boil over moderate heat, whisking, boil it, whisking, for 2 minutes, and strain it through a fine sieve into a metal bowl set in a larger bowl of ice and cold water. Stir in the pineapple mixture and vanilla, let the custard cool, stirring, and stir in the cream. Freeze the custard in an ice-cream freezer according to the manufacturer's instructions until it is frozen but still soft.
Spoon the ice cream over the cake, spreading it evenly, and freeze the cake while making the topping.
In a bowl beat the cream until it holds soft peaks and beat in the sugar and sour cream. Beat the mixture until it just holds stiff peaks and fold in the coconut gently but thoroughly.
Spoon the topping over the ice cream, spreading it evenly, and freeze the cake, its surface covered with plastic wrap, overnight. Let the cake stand at room temperature for 10 minutes, remove the side of the pan, and transfer the cake to a serving plate. Sprinkle the coconut on top and serve the cake into wedges.

Bananas Foster Cheesecake 
3/4 cup all purpose flour
3/4 cup finely chopped pecans
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
3 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons (packed) golden brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 8-ounce packages Neufchâtel cheese (reduced-fat cream cheese), room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 tablespoons cornstarch
3 large eggs
2 cups puréed bananas (from about 4 bananas)
1 cup low-fat sour cream
1 1/2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Pinch of salt
1 cup low-fat sour cream
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 17-ounce jar caramel sauce
2 tablespoons dark rum
2 bananas, peeled, sliced

Position rack in center of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Wrap outside of 9-inch diameter springform pan with 3-inch -high sides with heavy-duty foil. Combine flour, pecans, butter, sugar, brown sugar and vanilla in large bowl. Mix well. Press mixture onto bottom of prepared pan.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until smooth. Gradually beat in sugar. Beat in cornstarch. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating until just blended after each addition. Add puréed banana, sour cream, lemon juice, vanilla, cinnamon and salt. Beat just until combined.
Transfer filling to crust-lined pan. Place pan in large roasting pan. Add enough hot water to roasting pan to come 1 inch up sides of springform pan. Bake until center of cake is just set, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Remove cake from oven. Maintain oven temperature.
Mix together sour cream, sugar and vanilla in small bowl until well blended. Spread topping over cheesecake. Bake until topping is set, about 10 minutes. Turn off oven. Let cake stand in oven until cooled to room temperature, about 2 hours. Refrigerate cake until well chilled. Cover and refrigerate overnight.
Cut around cake to loosen; remove pan sides. Transfer cake to platter. Warm caramel sauce in small saucepan over low heat, stirring often. Mix in rum. Drizzle some sauce decoratively over cake. Arrange bananas top cake.
Cut cake into wedges. Serve, passing remaining sauce separately.

Almond Joy Cheesecake 
1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs
1 1/2 cups sweetened flaked coconut, toasted
1/2 cup sliced almonds, toasted (about 2 ounces)
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
4 large eggs
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut, toasted
1 tablespoon coconut extract
1 cup sliced almonds, toasted
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
3/4 cup whipping cream
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract

For crust: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Wrap outside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with foil. FInely grind cracker crumbs, coconut, almonds and sugar in processor. Add butter; process until moist crumbs form. Press mixture onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of pan. Bake crust until set and beginning to brown, about 12 minutes. Cool. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
For filling: Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until blended after each addition. Mix in coconut and extract . Fold in almonds. Transfer filling to crust. Bake until cake is puffed and no longer moves when pan is shaken, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Cool completely on rack.
For glaze: Combine 1 cup chocolate chips, cream and vanilla in small saucepan. Stir over medium-low heat until smooth. Cool until glaze begins to thicken but can still be poured, about 30 minutes. Pour glaze over cooled cake; spread evenly. Chill cake overnight.
Run small knife around sides of cake to loosen. Release pan sides.

Banana Coffee Cake Diamond 
1 1/4 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 very ripe bananas, mashed
1/2 cup sour cream
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
2 extra-large eggs
1 tablespoon coffee extract, or 1 tablespoon instant espresso powder dissolved in 1 tablespoon hot water
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Garnish: confectioners' sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and grease and flour a 10-inch (3-quart) bundt pan, knocking out excess flour.
Into a large bowl sift together flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt. In a small bowl stir together bananas and sour cream. In another large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugars until light and fluffy and add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in coffee extract (or espresso) and vanilla. Beat in flour mixture in batches alternately with banana mixture, beginning and ending with flour mixture, until batter is just combined.
Spoon batter into pan and bake in middle of oven 50 minutes, or until a cake tester comes out clean and cake pulls away from side of pan. Cool cake in pan 10 minutes and invert onto a rack to cool completely. Let cake stand, wrapped tightly, at room temperature overnight.
Dust cake with confectioners' sugar.

Individual Orange and Poppy Seed Pound Cakes 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cup sugar
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
5 large eggs
1/3 cup orange juice
1 tablespoon grated orange peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup poppy seeds

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour four 5 3/8 x 3 1/4 x 1 7/8-inch loaf pans. Sift flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and unsalted butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in orange juice, grated orange peel and vanilla extract (batter may look curdled). Beat in flour mixture. Fold in poppy seeds.
Divide batter equally among prepared pans (about 1 1/2 cups each). Place pans in oven. Bake until tops of cakes are brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Transfer pans to rack. Cool cakes 10 minutes. Cut around sides of pans to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto wire racks and cool completely. (Cakes can be prepared up to 1 week ahead. Wrap in aluminum foil; store cakes at room temperature.)

Chocolate Crackle Cookies 
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1 large egg, beaten lightly
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar plus additional for dusting hands

In a bowl (preferably metal) stir together flour, granulated sugar, cocoa, baking powder, and salt and, using finger, blend in butter. Stir in egg until mixture is blended. Spread dough in a thin layer in bowl and freeze 10 minutes, or until firm.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. and lightly grease 2 baking sheets.
Spoon level teaspoons of dough onto a sheet of wax paper. Put 2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar in a small bowl and dust hands with additional. Roll each piece of dough into a ball and then in confectioners' sugar in bowl. Arrange balls 2 inches apart on baking sheets and bake in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching sheets halfway through baking time, 8 to 10 minutes, or until cookies are just set. Cool cookies on racks.

Meringue-Crusted Chocolate Cake 
1 2/3 cups cake flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/3 cups plus 3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs, separated
1 large egg
1 cup buttermilk
1 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips (about 6 ounces)

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Generously butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides; dust with flour. Sift first 4 ingredients into small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat 1 1/3 cups sugar, butter, 3 yolks and 1 whole egg in large bowl until blended. Beat in flour mixture alternately with buttermilk in 3 additions each. Mix in chocolate chips.
Using clean dry beaters, beat 3 egg whites in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 3/4 cup sugar, beating until stiff glossy peaks form, about 5 minutes. Spread 2/3 of meringue halfway up sides (not on bottom) of prepared pan. Spoon batter into meringue-lined pan; top with remaining meringue. Using tip of knife, swirl top meringue and some of chocolate batter together.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out with a few crumbs attached, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Cool 10 minutes on rack. Cut around pan sides; release pan sides. Cool completely.

Aunt Tom's Italian Cream Cake 
2 cups granulated sugar
1 1/2 cups vegetable shortening, softened
1 stick (1/2 cup) margarine, softened
5 large eggs, separated
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup well-shaken buttermilk
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups sweetened flaked coconut
1 cup chopped pecans
an 8-ounce package cream cheese, softened
1 stick (1/2 cup) margarine, softened
1 teaspoon vanilla
a 1-pound box confectioners' sugar

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. and lightly butter and flour three 9- by 2-inch round cake pans, knocking out any excess flour.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together sugar, shortening, and margarine until light and fluffy. Add egg yolks, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Into another bowl sift together flour, baking soda, and salt. Beat flour mixture into egg mixture in 2 batches alternately with buttermilk, beginning and ending with flour mixture, until combined. Beat in vanilla, coconut, and chopped pecans. Beat egg whites in another bowl until they just hold stiff peaks and fold into batter gently but thoroughly.
Divide batter among pans, smoothing tops, and bake in upper two thirds of oven, switching position of pans in oven halfway through baking, until a tester comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cake layers in pans on racks 10 minutes and invert onto racks to cool completely.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together cream cheese, margarine, and vanilla until smooth. Gradually beat in confectioners' sugar, beating until creamy.
Stack cake layers on a cake plate, spreading about 1/2 cup frosting between each layer. Spread remaining frosting on top and side of cake.

Almond Macaroons 
1 cup whole almonds (preferably blanched)
2/3 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg white
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
confectioners' sugar for dusting
about 16 whole almonds

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and lightly butter a baking sheet.
In a food processor pulse 1 cup almonds with granulated sugar until ground fine. Add egg white, almond extract, and a pinch salt and pulse until combined. Roll mixture into 16 balls, about 1 inch in diameter, and arrange about 2 inches apart on baking sheet. Slightly flatten balls and dust lightly with confectioners' sugar. Gently press 1 almond into each cookie.
Bake macaroons in middle of oven 10 minutes, or until pale golden. Transfer macaroons to a rack and cool completely. Macaroons keep 4 days in an airtight container at room temperature.

Apple-Ginger Upside-Down Cake 
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
2/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
4 large Granny Smith apples (about 28 ounces), peeled, quartered, cored, cut into 1/2-inch-thick wedges
3 tablespoons minced crystallized ginger
1/3 cup minced crystallized ginger
4 tablespoons plus 1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup whole milk
1 cup chilled whipping cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Melt butter in small saucepan over medium heat. Add sugar and cook until mixture bubbles, about 3 minutes. Remove from heat. Stir in ground ginger. Pour mixture into prepared pan, spreading with spatula to distribute evenly. Tightly overlap apples atop sugar mixture, making 2 layers of apples. Sprinkle crystallized ginger atop apples. Set aside.
Mix crystallized ginger with 1 tablespoon flour in small bowl. Sift 1 1/4 cups plus 3 tablespoons flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat brown sugar and butter in large bowl until light and creamy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in vanilla. Mix in sifted dry ingredients alternately with milk. Stir in ginger mixture. Spoon batter atop apples in pan. Bake cake until brown on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool cake in pan on rack 15 minutes.
Whip cream, 2 tablespoons sugar and ground ginger in another medium bowl to soft peaks.
Run small knife around edges of pan to loosen cake. Place platter over cake and invert cake onto platter. Serve warm or at room temperature with cream. (Can be made 6 hours ahead. Cover cake; let stand at room temperature. Cover and chill cream.)

Spice Cookies with Raisins and Walnuts 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup milk
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/3 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon allspice
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup chopped raisins
1 cup chopped walnuts (about 4 1/2 ounces)

Beat butter and both sugars in large bowl until creamy. Beat in milk, egg and vanilla. Stir flour, baking powder, cinnamon, allspice, cloves and salt in medium bowl. Add to butter mixture; beat to blend. Stir in raisins and walnuts. Cover dough and refrigerate until chilled, about 2 hours (dough will be sticky).
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Drop dough by rounded teaspoonfuls onto heavy large baking sheets, spacing evenly. Bake until cookies are pale golden, about 12 minutes. Transfer baking sheets to racks; cool 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks; cool. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Applesauce Coffee Cake with Crumb Topping 
1/4 cup all purpose flour
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup unsweetened applesauce
1/3 cup low-fat buttermilk
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon (packed) grated lemon peel
2 large egg whites

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine all ingredients in small bowl. Mash with fork until blended and coarse crumbs form. Set aside.
Spray 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 1 1/2-inch-high sides with vegetable oil spray. Sift flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda and salt into large bowl. Whisk applesauce, buttermilk, oil, egg yolk, vanilla and lemon peel in medium bowl until well blended. Add to dry ingredients and stir just until moistened (batter will be thick). Beat egg whites in another large bowl until stiff peaks form. Whisk half of whites into batter. Fold in remaining whites.
Transfer batter to prepared pan. Sprinkle topping over batter. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool in pan. Cut into 10 wedges and serve.

Old-Fashioned Peanut Butter Cookies 
3 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup creamy or chunky peanut butter (do not use old-fashioned style or freshly ground)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Mix flour, baking powder and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter, peanut butter and vanilla in large bowl until well blended. Beat in both sugars. Scrape down sides of bowl. Stir half of dry ingredients into mixture. Add eggs 1 at a time, stirring well after each addition. Mix in remaining dry ingredients.
For each cookie, roll 1 heaping tablespoonful of dough into 1 3/4-inch-diameter ball. Arrange dough balls 2 1/2 inches apart on prepared baking sheets. Using back of fork, flatten dough balls and form crosshatch design on tops. Bake cookies until dry on top and golden brown on bottom, about 14 minutes. Cool cookies on baking sheets 5 minutes. Using metal spatula, transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. (Can be prepared up to 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Macadamia Rum Baked Alaska 
2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups sugar
5 large eggs, beaten lightly
1 1/2 tablespoons dark rum
1/3 cup sugar
2/3 cup water
3 tablespoons dark rum
1 1/2 pints (3 cups) super-premium vanilla ice-cream, softened
1 cup salted macadamia nuts, chopped, toasted, and cooled
12 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 cups sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. and butter and flour a loaf pan, 9 by 5 by 3 inches, knocking out excess flour.
Onto a sheet of wax paper sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. In a bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed cream butter 1 minute and beat in sugar in a steady stream, beating until light and fluffy. Add eggs, a little at a time, beating well after each addition and scraping bowl occasionally. Beat in rum until mixture is pale and fluffy. Add flour mixture, one third at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat until batter is smooth. Spoon batter into prepared pan, smoothing top, and bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, about 1 hour and 10 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 10 minutes. Invert cake onto rack and cool completely.
In a small saucepan combine sugar and water and boil, stirring until sugar is dissolved, 2 minutes. Remove pan from heat and stir in rum. Cool syrup to room temperature.
In a metal bowl stir together ice cream and nuts and freeze until needed.
Line cleaned loaf pan with plastic wrap, leaving a 3-inch overhang on short sides. Halve cake horizontally with a serrated knife and reserve bottom half for another use. Halve remaining cake horizontally and put bottom layer in loaf pan. Brush layer in loaf pan and cut side of other layer with syrup. Working quickly, spread ice cream evenly over cake layer in loaf pan and top with remaining cake layer, rounded side up. Freeze cake, covered, until frozen hard, about 6 hours. Cake may be made 3 days ahead and kept frozen.
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer stir together egg whites, salt, and sugar. Set bowl over a saucepan of simmering water and stir mixture just until sugar is dissolved. Remove bowl from pan and with mixer beat meringue until it holds stiff, glossy peaks.
Working quickly, remove cake from pan and arrange, flat side down, on an ovenproof shallow platter. With a rubber spatula spread top and sides of cake with a generous layer of meringue, covering it completely. Transfer remaining meringue to a pastry bag fitted with a large star tip and pipe it generously on and around dessert. Bake dessert in middle of oven 4 to 5 minutes, or until meringue is golden brown. Serve immediately.

Chocolate Chip 'Wiches 
1 cup all purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
2 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup walnuts
2 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped, or 1/3 cup mini chocolate chips
Sugar
1 pint ice cream of choice
3 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine first 6 ingredients in processor and blend. Add butter and vanilla. Process until mixture resembles fine meal and begins to stick together, using on/off turns. Add walnuts and process until finely chopped. Mix in chocolate.
Transfer mixture to sheet of waxed paper. Press together. Top with another sheet of waxed paper. Roll out 1/4 inch thick. Cut out cookies using 2 1/2-inch round cookie cutter. Transfer to ungreased cookie sheet. Gather scraps, reroll and cut additional cookies. Sprinkle cookies with sugar. Bake until just beginning to color, about 22 minutes. Cool on cookie sheet on rack 5 minutes. Carefully transfer cookies to rack and cool. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)
Soften ice cream slightly in refrigerator. Turn 8 cookies over and gently spread 1/4 cup ice cream atop each. Top with 8 cookies, sugared side up. Freeze until firm.
Melt 3 ounces semisweet chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring until smooth. Dip fork in chocolate and drizzle in free-form lines over tops of sandwiches. Freeze until chocolate design is firm. (Can be prepared up to 3 days ahead. Cover and freeze.) Soften slightly in refrigerator before serving if frozen very solid.

Puff Pastry Pinwheel Cookies with Jam 
1 17 1/4-ounce package frozen puff pastry (2 sheets), thawed
1 egg, beaten to blend (glaze)
1/2 cup (about) sugar
1/2 cup (about) assorted jams (such as raspberry, apricot and kiwi)
Powdered sugar (optional)

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 heavy large baking sheets. Roll out 1 puff pastry sheet on lightly floured surface to 16x13-inch rectangle. Trim edges neatly, forming 15x12-inch rectangle. Cut rectangle into twenty 3-inch squares. Using small sharp knife, make 1-inch-long diagonal cut in all 4 corners of 1 square, cutting toward center (do not cut through center). To form pinwheels, fold every other point of puff pastry toward center of square, pressing to adhere. Repeat with remaining puff pastry squares.
Brush pinwheels lightly with egg glaze. Sprinkle each with 1/2 teaspoon sugar. Place scant 1/2 teaspoon jam in center of each. Transfer to prepared baking sheet. Bake until pinwheels are golden and puffed, about 13 minutes. Using metal spatula, transfer cookies to rack and cool. Repeat with remaining puff pastry sheet, glaze, sugar and jam.
Sprinkle cookies with powdered sugar, if desired. (Can be prepared ahead. Place cookies between waxed paper sheets in airtight containers and freeze up to 2 weeks; thaw before packing, or store airtight at room temperature up to 3 days.)

Mexican Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon ground pepper
1 12-ounce package semisweet chocolate chips

Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then vanilla. Sift next 6 ingredients over butter mixture; beat just until blended. Mix in chocolate chips. Refrigerate dough until cold, at least 1 hour and up to 1 day.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 large baking sheets. Drop dough by rounded tablespoonfuls onto sheets, spacing 1 1/2 inches apart. Bake cookies until golden brown but still soft to touch, about 10 minutes (for crisper cookies, bake 12 minutes). Let stand on sheets 3 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool.

Swedish Meringue Cake with Strawberries and Orange Filling 
1 1/2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 1/2 teaspoons double-acting baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 3/4 cups sugar
6 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup milk
1/2 cup sliced blanched almonds, ground fine in an electric coffee or spice grinder
1/2 cup sugar
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon freshly grated orange zest
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated lemon zest
3/4 cup fresh orange juice
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2 large egg yolks
1 1/2 pints strawberries, reserving 11 whole berries for garnish and the remaining ones chopped fine
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar

Line the bottoms of 3 buttered 9- by 2-inch cake pans with rounds of wax paper, butter the paper, and dust the pans with flour, knocking out the excess. Into a bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, and the salt. In the bowl of an electric mixer cream together the butter and 3/4 cup of the sugar until mixture is light and fluffy, add the egg yolks, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in the vanilla. Add the flour mixture and the milk in batches, beginning and ending with the flour mixture and beating well after each addition, and divide the batter among the prepared pans, spreading and smoothing it.
In the cleaned bowl with cleaned beaters beat the egg whites with a pinch of salt until they hold soft peaks, add the remaining 1 cup sugar, a little at a time, and beat the meringue until it just holds stiff peaks. Fold in the almonds gently but thoroughly. (Do not beat in the almonds.) Spread the meringue over the batter, smoothing it, and bake the layers in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 30 to 35 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Let the layers cool in the pans on a rack. Run a knife around the edges, invert the layers onto rack, and discard the wax paper. The cake layers may be made 1 day in advance and kept wrapped in plastic wrap.
In a heavy saucepan whisk together the sugar, the cornstarch, and a pinch of salt. In a bowl whisk together the zests, the juices, and the yolks and whisk the yolk mixture into the sugar mixture until the mixture is combined well. Bring the mixture to a boil, whisking, boil it gently, whisking, for 2 minutes, and let it cool, whisking occasionally.
Arrange one of the layers, meringue side up, on a serving plate, spread half the orange filling on it, and spread half the chopped strawberries on the filling. Arrange another layer, meringue side up, on the strawberries, spread the remaining filling on it, and spread the remaining chopped strawberries on the filling. Arrange the remaining layer, meringue side up, on the strawberries. The cake may be assembled up to this point 6 hours in advance and kept covered with plastic wrap and chilled.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat the cream until it holds soft peaks, beat in the confectioners' sugar, and beat the cream until it holds stiff peaks. Transfer the cream to a pastry bag fitted with a star tip and pipe a circle of it decoratively around the top edge of the cake. Pipe another circle of cream 1 inch inside the first circle, pipe a rosette in the center, and pipe another circle of cream around the base of the cake. Quarter lengthwise 10 of the reserved strawberries, arrange them decoratively inside the concentric circles, and arrange the remaining strawberry on the rosette.

Almond Meringue Torte with Praline Buttercream 
6 large egg whites
1 cup granulated sugar
1 cup blanched whole almonds, ground fine in a food processor
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
1 cup granulated sugar
1/3 cup blanched whole almonds
1/3 cup hazelnuts
1/2 cup milk
1 cup granulated sugar
1 vanilla bean, halved lengthwise, or 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
6 large egg yolks
4 sticks (2 cups) unsalted butter, softened to cool room temperature
1/2 cup blanched whole almonds, toasted, cooled, and chopped
confectioners' sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and butter and flour two 8- or 9-inch round cake pans, knocking out excess flour.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat whites until they hold soft peaks. Add sugar in a slow stream, beating until meringue holds stiff, glossy peaks. Fold in almonds and sift flour over meringue. Fold in flour gently but thoroughly and divide meringue between cake pans, smoothing it evenly. Bake layers in middle of oven 30 to 35 minutes, or until pale golden and firm to the touch. Invert layers onto racks and cool.
Line a baking sheet with foil.
In a dry heavy saucepan cook sugar over moderate heat, stirring with a fork, until melted and cook, without stirring, swirling pan, until a golden caramel. Remove pan from heat and stir in almonds and hazelnuts. Immediately pour mixture onto baking sheet tilting baking sheet to make a thin layer and cool completely. Break praline into pieces and transfer to a plastic bag. Crush praline coarse with a rolling pin. Praline may be made 1 week ahead and kept in an airtight container at room temperature.
In a small heavy saucepan simmer milk, sugar, and vanilla bean if using, stirring, until sugar is dissolved. In a bowl whisk yolks and add milk mixture in a stream, whisking. Transfer mixture to pan and cook over low heat, stirring, until a candy thermometer registers 170 degrees F. Pour mixture through a fine sieve into another bowl and cool completely. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat butter until light and fluffy and beat in custard, a little at a time, until smooth. Beat in 1/2 cup praline (reserving remaining praline for another use) and vanilla extract if using.
Stack meringue layers, spreading some buttercream generously between them. Spread remaining buttercream on top and side of torte. Press chopped toasted almonds onto top and side of torte and sprinkle top with confectioners' sugar. Torte may be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered. Let torte stand at cool room temperature 2 hours before serving.

Cappuccino Chocolate Layer Cake 
6 tablespoons water
3 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon instant coffee powder
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons instant coffee powder
1 1/2 cups whole milk
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Fudge Frosting

Combine all ingredients in small saucepan. Stir over low heat until sugar and coffee dissolve. Let cool. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Chill.)
Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms with waxed paper; butter paper. Dust with flour. Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted. Remove from over water.
Sift flour, baking powder, cinnamon and salt into medium bowl. Stir coffee powder into milk in another medium bowl until dissolved. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Mix in melted chocolate and vanilla. Add dry ingredients alternately with milk mixture in 3 additions. Divide batter between pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely. Peel off paper.
Cut each cake horizontally in half. Using bottom of tart pan as aid, transfer 1 cake layer, cut side up, to platter. Brush cake layer with 2 tablespoons syrup. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over cake layer. Repeat layering 2 times, using 1 cake layer, 2 tablespoons syrup and 3/4 cup frosting for each layer. Top with fourth cake layer, cut side down. Spread remaining frosting over cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.)

Elodie's Chocolate Cake 
10 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
5 large eggs
1 1/4 cups sugar
5 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour 10-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Stir chocolate and butter in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Beat eggs and 1 1/4 cups sugar in large bowl until well blended and beginning to thicken. Sift flour and baking powder over eggs and fold in. Gradually fold in chocolate mixture. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake 20 minutes. Cover pan with foil. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs still attached, about 30 minutes longer. Uncover cake; cool in pan on rack (cake will fall as it cools). (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; let stand at room temperature.)
Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Sift powdered sugar over cake; cut into wedges.

Chocolate-Chunk Chocolate Cake 
2 tablespoons warm water
1 tablespoon instant coffee crystals
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 large eggs, room temperature
2/3 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 3.52-ounce milk chocolate Toblerone bars, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan; dust with flour Stir 2 tablespoons water and coffee in small bowl until coffee dissolves; set aside.
sift flour, cocoa, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add 1 1/2 cups sugar, beating until well blended. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time. Add coffee mixture, sour cream and vanilla extract and beat to blend. Stir in flour mixture. Fold in half of chocolate pieces.Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Transfer cake to rack; sprinkle remaining chocolate pieces over hoe cake. Cool 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake; release pan sides. Cool cake completely.
Sift powdered sugar over cake. Cut into wedges and serve.

Old-Fashioned Chocolate Layer Cake 
1/2 cup water
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 tablespoon instant coffee powder
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup sour cream
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
4 cups powdered sugar
1/2 cup whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour three 9-inch round cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Combine water, chocolate and coffee powder in heavy small saucepan. Stir over low heat until chocolate melts and coffee powder dissolves. Remove from heat. Cool.
Beat sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs and vanilla. Beat in chocolate mixture. Mix flour and baking soda in medium bowl. Add to butter mixture and beat just until combined. Beat in sour cream.
Divide batter among prepared pans. Bake until cakes begin to pull away from sides of pans and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Transfer pans to racks and cool 10 minutes. Using small knife, cut around sides of pans to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap tightly in plastic and store at room temperature.)
Melt butter and chocolate in small saucepan over low heat, stirring until smooth. Transfer to large bowl; cool. Add sugar, cream and vanilla; beat until smooth. If necessary, refrigerate until firm enough to spread.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 1/2 cup frosting over top. Top with another cake layer. Spread 1/2 cup frosting over top. Top with remaining cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over sides and top of cake in decorative swirls. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and store at cool room temperature.)

Coconut Spice Cake 
2 cups plus 3 tablespoons sifted unbleached all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
2 eggs
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons light unsulfured molasses
2 tablespoons grated orange peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup buttermilk
1 cup shredded sweetened coconut, toasted
1/2 cup diced crystallized ginger (about 2 1/2 ounces)
8 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons grated orange peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1-pound box powdered sugar
1/3 cup minced crystallized ginger (scant 2 ounces)
1 cup shredded sweetened coconut, toasted
Tropical fruit such as pineapple, papaya and mango, cut into bite-size pieces

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms with parchment. Butter parchment; dust pans with flour. Sift flour, baking powder, ground ginger, baking soda, salt and ground cinnamon into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, cream unsalted butter and sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Add unsulfured molasses, grated orange peel and vanilla extract and beat 1 minute at high speed until well blended. Mix in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Fold in shredded coconut and crystallized ginger.
Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake until cakes begin to pull away from sides of pans, about 30 minutes. Cool in pans on rack 5 minutes. Invert cakes onto racks. Remove parchment and cool completely.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter until smooth. Mix in orange peel and vanilla. Beat in sugar. Mix in ginger.
Place 1 cake layer on platter, flat side down. Spread with some of icing. Sprinkle with 3/4 cup coconut. Top with second layer, flat side up. Spread remaining icing over top and sides of cake. Arrange remaining coconut around top edge of cake. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Chill until icing is set; wrap lightly with plastic and refrigerate. Bring to room temperature.) Place fruit around base of cake.

Cornmeal Cake with Sweet Rosemary Syrup and Blackberries 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 cup yellow cornmeal
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
2/3 cup milk
Sweet Rosemary Syrup
lightly sweetened whipped cream
2 half-pints blackberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and butter and flour an 8- by 2-inch round cake pan.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Add remaining cake ingredients and beat on low speed until combined. Beat batter on high speed until pale yellow, about 3 minutes.
Pour batter into prepared pan and bake in middle of oven 40 minutes, or until a tester comes out with a few crumbs adhering.
Make Rosemary Syrup while cake is baking.
Cool cake in pan on a rack 10 minutes. Invert cake onto hand and return, right side up, to rack. While cake is still warm, gradually brush 1/3 cup syrup over it, allowing syrup to soak in before adding more. Chill remaining syrup in a small pitcher, covered. Syrup-soaked cake may be made 1 day ahead and kept wrapped in plastic wrap at room temperature.
Serve cake, cut into wedges, with whipped cream, blackberries, and remaining rosemary syrup.

Triple-Chocolate Layer Cake 
1/2 cup cold buttermilk
1 tablespoon instant espresso powder
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 cup cake flour
6 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder (preferably Dutch-process)
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
3 large eggs
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Baker's of Lindt), finely chopped
4ounces imported milk chocolate, finely chopped
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon chilled whipping cream
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
White and milk chocolate shavings (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter three 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of and with parchment paper. Stir buttermilk, espresso power and vanilla in small bowl until powder dissolves.
Sift sugar and next 5 ingredients into large bowl. Add eggs and butter; beat until mixture is thick and smooth, about 1 1/2 minutes. Add buttermilk mixture; beat until light and fluffy,about 1 1/2 minutes linger. Divide batter among pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 5 minutes. Turn cake out onto racks. Peel off parchment; cool completely.
Place white chocolate and milk chocolate in separate medium bowls. Bring 1 cup cream to boil in heavy medium saucepan. Pour 3 tablespoons hot cream into white chocolate and 3 tablespoons hot cream into milk chocolate. Add bittersweet chocolate to remaining cream in saucepan; stir until smooth. Stir white chocolate and milk chocolate fillings until smooth; chill until cold but not firm, about 15 minutes. Set aside bittersweet chocolate frosting.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Using handheld mixer, beat white chocolate filling until slightly stiff. Spread over cake layer. Top with second cake layer. Add remaining 1 tablespoon cream to milk chocolate filling and beat until smooth. Spread over second cake layer. Top with third cake layer. Chill cake until bittersweet chocolate frosting is firm enough to spread, about 30 minutes.
Stir frosting until smooth. Spread very thin layer over top and sides of cake to smooth surface and anchor crumbs. Chill 30 minutes. Spread remaining frosting decoratively over cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and chill.)
Garnish cake with chocolate shavings, if desired,and serve.

Lemon Coconut Cookies 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons freshly grated lemon zest
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut, toasted and cooled
confectioners' sugar for sprinkling the cookies

In a bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy and beat in the zest, the vanilla, and the lemon extract. Add the flour and the salt, beat the mixture until it forms a dough, and stir in the coconut. Chill the dough for 1 hour, or until it is firm enough to handle. Halve the dough and on a sheet of wax paper form each half into an 8-inch log, using the wax paper as a guide. Chill the logs, wrapped in the wax paper, for at least 4 hours or overnight.
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F. Cut the logs into 1/4-inch-thick slices with a sharp knife and arrange the slices 2 inches apart on lightly butter baking sheets. Bake the cookies in the middle of the oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until they are pale golden, transfer them to racks, and sprinkle them generously with some of the confectioners' sugar. Let the cookies cool and dust them lightly with the remaining confectioners' sugar.

Plum Küchen 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup plus 1/4 cup sugar
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1/2 cup sour cream
5 large plums, halved, pitted, each cut into 8 wedges

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan. Sift flour, baking powder, 1 teaspoon cinnamon and salt into small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat 6 tablespoons butter with 2/3 cup sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then extracts. Beat in dry ingredients in 3 additions alternately with sour cream in 2 additions. Spread batter in pan.
Arrange plum wedges on their sides in 4 long rows atop batter. Mix 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon and 1/4 cup sugar in small bowl. Sprinkle over plums. Melt 2 tablespoons butter. Drizzle over kuchen.
Bake kuchen until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Transfer pan to rack. Cool until just warm, about 30 minutes, or to room temperature. Cut into 4 lengthwise strips. Cut each strip crosswise into thirds.

Caramel Apple Shortcakes 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons sugar plus additional for sprinkling the shortcakes
1 tablespoon double-acting baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons freshly grated lemon zest
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream plus additional cream or milk for brushing the shortcakes
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
3/4 cup heavy cream, heated
5 tart cooking apples such as Granny Smith (about 2 pounds)
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter

Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Into a bowl sift together the flour, 3 tablespoons of sugar, the baking powder, and a pinch of salt and stir in zest. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat 1 cup of the cream with the vanilla until it just holds soft peaks. Make a well in the center of the flour mixture, add the whipped cream, and with a fork combine the mixture until it just forms a dough. On a lightly floured surface knead the dough 6 times, or until it is just combined well, roll or pat it out 1/2 inch thick, and with a floured 4-inch cutter cut out a total of 6 rounds, gathering and rerolling the scraps. Brush the rounds with the additional cream or the milk and sprinkle them with the additional sugar. Bake the shortcakes on a greased baking sheet in the middle of the oven for 12 to 15 minutes, or until they are golden, transfer them with a spatula to a rack, and let them cool.
In a dry heavy skillet cook 1/2 cup of the sugar over moderate heat, undisturbed, until it begins to melt and cook the sugar, stirring with a fork, until it is melted completely and turns a golden caramel. Remove the skillet from the heat and whisk in the cream carefully. Return the skillet to the heat and whisk the caramel sauce until it is smooth. In a large heavy skillet cook the apples, each peeled, cored, and cut into 8 slices, in the butter over moderately high heat, stirring, until they are browned lightly, add the remaining 1 tablespoon sugar, and cook the apples until they are soft and caramelized. Add the sauce to the apples and stir the mixture carefully.
Break each shortcake in half, arrange 2 halves on each of 6 dessert plates, and spoon the apples over them.

Uncle Anthony's Cheesecake 
1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs
1 1/4 cups sugar
5 1/2 tablespoons butter, melted
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
3 large eggs, room temperature
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 pint sour cream

Position 1 rack in center of oven and second rack in lowest third of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Mix cracker crumbs, 1/4 cup sugar and butter in small bowl until well blended. Press mixture onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and remaining 1 cup sugar in large bowl until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just to blend after each addition. Mix in vanilla. Fold in sour cream thoroughly. Pour batter into prepared pan. Set cheesecake pan on center rack. Fill small pan with water and place on bottom rack.
Bake cheesecake 30 minutes. Turn off heat and let stand in warm oven 1 hour; do not open oven door. Transfer to rack and cool. Cover and chill until cold. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.)

Maple Walnut Coffeecake 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup walnuts
2/3 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup pure maple syrup
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons double-acting baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2/3 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup pure maple syrup
1 1/2 teaspoons maple extract
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 large eggs
3/4 cup sour cream
confectioners' sugar for sprinkling the coffeecake

In a food processor blend together the flour, the walnuts, the brown sugar, the butter, the cinnamon, and the salt until the nuts are ground and the mixture is crumbly, add the syrup, and pulse the motor until the mixture is combined well.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. and butter and flour lightly a 9-inch pan.
Into a bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, the baking soda, and the salt. In another bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, beat in the maple syrup, the maple extract, and the vanilla, and beat in the eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add the flour mixture to the butter mixture alternately with the sour cream, beginning and ending with the flour mixture and beating the batter after each addition until is just combined.
Spoon half the batter into the pan, spreading it evenly, sprinkle half the crumb mixture over it, and spread the remaining batter evenly over the crumb mixture. Sprinkle the remaining crumb mixture over the top and bake the cake in the middle of the oven for 50 to 60 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Let the cake cool in the pan on a rack for 5 minutes, remove the side of the pan, and transfer the cake, removing the bottom of the pan, to the rack. Let the cake cool completely and sprinkle the top with the confectioners' sugar. The coffeecake may be made 1 day in advance and kept wrapped in plastic wrap.

Lemon Pudding Cookies 
1 cup buttermilk baking mix
1 3.4-ounce package instant lemon pudding
1 large egg, beaten to blend
1/4 cup vegetable oil
Sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease 2 large cookie sheets. Mix first 4 ingredients in large bowl until dough forms. Roll dough into 1-inch balls. Place balls 2 inches apart on prepared cookie sheets. Dip flat-bottom glass into sugar. Press glass onto dough ball and flatten into 1/4-inch-thick cookie. Repeat with remaining cookies. Bake until just golden brown on edges, about 10 minutes. Transfer to racks and cool completely. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store cookies in airtight container.)

Pumpkin-Pecan Cheesecake 
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
3/4 cup coarsely chopped pecans
2 cups gingersnap cookie crumbs (about 9 ounces)
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
4 large eggs
1 15-ounce can solid pack pumpkin
3 tablespoons bourbon
2 teaspoons vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line baking sheet with foil. Stir sugar and butter in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat until sugar melts and mixture comes to boil; boil 1 minute without stirring. Mix in pecans. Spread mixture on prepared baking sheet. Bake until sugar syrup bubbles vigorously, about 8 minutes. Cool praline completely. Break into pieces. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight.)
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Stir cookie crumbs and cinnamon in medium bowl to blend. Add butter; stir until crumbs are moistened. Press onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Bake crust until set, about 8 minutes. Cool. Double-wrap outside of pan with heavy-duty foil. Place in large roasting pan.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in flour and spices. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in pumpkin, bourbon and vanilla. Transfer to crust.
Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to reach 1 inch up sides of springform pan. Bake cake in water bath until center is just set, adding more water to roasting pan as needed, about 1 hour 45 minutes. Remove cheesecake from water. Cool in pan on rack. Remove foil. Run small sharp knife between cake and pan sides. Chill until cold; then cover and chill overnight.
Release pan sides. Place cake on platter. Sprinkle praline over, leaving 1-inch plain border at edge. Cut cake into wedges.

Cranberry and Raspberry Star Cookies 
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 egg yolk
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/4 cup cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon (generous) ground cloves
1 cup fresh cranberries
1/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup raspberry preserves
Powdered sugar

Using electric mixer, cream butter, vanilla and lemon in bowl until light. Gradually add sugar and beat until blended. Beat in egg and yolk. Combine flour, cornstarch and cloves. Beat half of dry ingredients into butter mixture. Stir in remaining dry ingredients. Gather dough into ball (dough will be soft). Divide dough into 4 pieces; flatten each into disk. Wrap each in plastic and chill 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter heavy large nonstick cookie sheets. Roll 1 dough piece out (keep remainder refrigerated) on floured surface to thickness of 1/8 inch. Cut out star-shaped cookies using floured 3-inch star cutter. Transfer to prepared cookie sheets, spacing 1/2 inch apart. Repeat rolling and cutting with second dough piece. Gather scraps and reroll, chilling dough briefly if soft. Cut out more 3-inch star cookies. Transfer to prepared cookie sheets. Chill cookies 10 minutes. Bake until edges are golden, about 10 minutes. Cool on rack.
Roll third dough piece out on lightly floured surface to thickness of 1/8 inch. Cut out star-shaped cookies using floured 3-inch star cutter. Cut smaller star out of center of each 3-inch star using 1 3/4- to 2-inch star cutter. Transfer star outlines to prepared cookie sheets using floured metal spatula as aid. Repeat rolling and cutting star outlines with fourth dough piece. Gather scraps and star centers and reroll, chilling dough briefly if soft. Cut out 3-inch stars. Cut smaller stars out of each 3-inch star. Transfer star outlines and centers to prepared cookie sheets. Chill cookies 10 minutes. Bake until edges are golden brown, about 9 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool.
Finely chop cranberries with sugar in processor. Transfer mixture to heavy medium saucepan. Mix in preserves. Cook over medium-high heat until mixture is reduced to scant 1 cup, stirring occasionally, about 8 minutes. Pour into bowl and cool.
Using metal icing spatula, spread 1 teaspoon jam filling in center of each 3-inch cookie, spreading slightly toward points of star. Lightly sift powdered sugar over star outlines. Place star outlines sugar side up over jam-topped cookies. (Can be prepared ahead. Place in single layers in airtight containers. Refrigerate up to 4 days or freeze up to 2 weeks. Let stand 10 minutes at room temperature before serving.)

Red, White, and Blue Cheesecake with Chocolate Cookie Crust 
28 chocolate wafers, ground fine in a blender or food processor (about 1 1/2 cups crumbs)
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, melted
four 8-ounces packages cream cheese, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
5 large eggs
1/2 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon freshly grated orange zest
1 teaspoon freshly grated lemon zest
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
about 1 1/2 cups raspberries
about 1 1/2 cups blueberries

In a bowl stir together the cookie crumbs and the butter until the mixture is combined well and pat the mixture onto the bottom and 1/2 inch up the side of a 9 1/2-inch springform pan. Chill the crust for 30 minutes.
Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat the cream cheese until it is light and fluffy, add the sugar gradually, beating, and beat the mixture until it is combined well. Beat in the flour, add the eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in the sour cream, the zests, the salt, and the vanilla, beating the filling until it is combined well.
Pour the filling into the crust and bake the cheesecake in a foil-lined shallow baking pan in the middle of the oven for 1 hour and 10 minutes. (The cheesecake will not be completely set; it will set as it cools.) Turn the oven off and let the cheesecake stand in the oven with the oven door propped open about 6 inches until it is cooled completely and remove the side of the pan.
Arrange the raspberries on top of the cheesecake in a star shape and arrange the blueberries around the star to cover the top of the cheesecake.

Ginger Crunch Cake with Strawberry Sauce 
1 cup pecans, toasted and chopped fine
1/2 cup gingersnap cookie crumbs (from about eight 2-inch gingersnaps)
1/2 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup unsulfured molasses
2/3 cup buttermilk
1/3 cup granulated sugar
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1 large egg, beaten lightly
3 cups well-chilled heavy cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 tablespoons granulated sugar
1 pint strawberries
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
Garnish: strawberries, with leaves and blossoms if desired (not recommended for eating)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease three 8- by 2-inch cake pans.
In a small bowl combine crunch topping ingredients, stirring until combined. Divide topping among pans and press evenly onto bottom.
In a large bowl whisk together flour, baking soda, ginger, cinnamon, and salt. Add remaining ginger cake ingredients and with an electric mixer beat on high speed 2 minutes. Carefully spread batter over crunch topping in pans and bake in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of pans in oven halfway through baking, 20 minutes, or until a tester inserted in center of each layer comes out clean.
Immediately invert cake layers onto racks lined with wax paper and cool completely. Cake layers may be made 2 weeks ahead and frozen, wrapped separately in plastic wrap. Thaw layers in refrigerator before proceeding with recipe.
In a chilled bowl with chilled beaters of an electric mixer beat 2 cups cream with vanilla and 2 tablespoons granulated sugar until it just holds stiff peaks.
Arrange 1 cake layer, crunch side up, on a cake plate and spread with a heaping cup whipped cream. Repeat with another cake layer and another heaping cup whipped cream and top with third cake layer, crunch side up. Leaving top plain, spread remaining whipped cream on side of cake to coat (a final coating will be added later). Chill cake, covered loosely with plastic wrap, at least 4 hours (to facilitate slicing) and up to 24.
Hull strawberries and slice half of them. In a bowl with a potato masher mash sliced berries with lemon juice and remaining 2 tablespoons granulated sugar. In a food processor purée remaining berries and strain through a fine sieve into bowl with mashed berry mixture. Sauce may be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered.
In a chilled bowl with chilled beaters of an electric mixer, beat remaining cup cream until it just holds stiff peaks and spread decoratively on side of cake. Arrange some whole strawberries on top of cake and garnish plate with additional whole strawberries.
Serve cake with strawberry sauce.

Cinnamon Nutmeg Tuiles 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
1/4 cup packed light brown sugar
3 tablespoons light corn syrup
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. and have ready a rolling pin.
In a saucepan melt butter with brown sugar and corn syrup over moderate heat, stirring occasionally until sugar is dissolved. Remove pan from heat and stir in flour, cinnamon, nutmeg, and a pinch salt until smooth.
Drop 6 rounded 1/2-teaspoons batter about 3 inches apart onto an ungreased baking sheet. Bake cookies in middle of oven 6 minutes, or until golden.
Remove 1 cookie from baking sheet with a thin metal spatula and immediately drape over a rolling pin to create a curved shape. Cool cookie completely on rolling pin and transfer to an airtight container. Make more cookies with remaining batter and form into tuiles in same manner. (If cookies become too brittle to drape over rolling pin, return baking sheet to oven a few seconds to allow cookies to soften.) Tuiles keep 5 days in an airtight container at cool room temperature.

Candied Holiday Fruitcake 
3 cups chopped pecans (about 12 ounces)
2 cups chopped candied pineapple (about 10 ounces)
3/4 cup chopped candied cherries (about 5 ounces)
1/3 cup chopped candied orange peel (about 1 1/2 ounces)
1 3/4 cups plus 3 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 cup (2 sticks) butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
5 eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon lemon extract
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
Pinch of salt
Powdered sugar

Position rack in lowest third of oven and preheat to 250 degrees F. Grease and flour 12-cup bundt pan or tube cake pan. In large bowl, mix pecans and fruits with 3 tablespoon flour. In another large bowl, cream butter with sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Stir in vanilla and lemon extract. Sift 1 3/4 cups flour with baking powder and salt. Add dry ingredients to batter; stir until blended. Mix fruit mixture into batter.
Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake until golden brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 2 1/2 hours. Cool in pan on rack 15 minutes. Turn out onto rack and cool. (Can be prepared 2 weeks ahead; wrap in foil and store at room temperature.) Dust with powdered sugar.

Maple-Cinnamon Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/2 cup unsweetened applesauce
1/2 cup pure maple syrup
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups cake flour
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Spray 8 x 8 x 2-inch baking pan with vegetable oil spray. Whisk applesauce, syrup, oil, egg and vanilla in large bowl until blended. Sift flour, brown sugar, baking powder, cinnamon, baking soda and salt into applesauce mixture. Stir to blend. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake cake until edges pull away from sides of pan and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 28 minutes. Transfer pan to rack and cool cake completely. Cut into 12 pieces and serve.

Raspberry Whipped Cream Truffle Cake 
1 cup whipping cream
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
2 tablespoons sugar
12 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
2 cups cake flour
2/3 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unslated butter, room temperature
3 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups buttermilk
1 3/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons chilled whipping cream
3 tablespoons powdered sugar
2 teaspoons framboise eau-de-vie (clear raspberry brandy; optional)
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups fresh raspberries or frozen unsweetened, thawed, drained
Additional raspberries (optional)

Combine cream, butter and sugar in heavy large saucepan. Stir over medium heat until butter melts, sugar dissolves and mixture comes to simmer. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and vanilla. Stir until chocolate melts and glaze is smooth. Let stand until thick enough to spread, stirring occasionally, about 1 hour. (Can be made 1 week ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Before using, whisk over low heat just until spreadable.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line pan bottoms with waxed paper; butter paper. Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted. Remove from over water.
Sift flour, cocoa, baking soda and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating to blend after each addition and occasionally scraping down sides of bowl. Mix in melted chocolate and vanilla. Mix in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk in 3 additions each. Transfer batter to prepared pans, dividing equally.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks; peel off waxed paper. Cool cakes completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap tightly and store at room temperature.)
Using electric mixer, beat cream, powdered sugar, framboise (if desired) and vanilla in large bowl until very firm peaks form. Transfer 1 1/2 cups whipped cream mixture to small bowl and chill. Fold 2 cups raspberries into remaining whipped cream mixture.
Cut each cake layer horizontally in half. Using large tart pan bottom as aid, transfer 1 layer to platter. Slide waxed paper strips under edges of cake. Spread 2/3 cup chocolate glaze over cake. Spread half of raspberry whipped cream over. Place second cake layer on work surface. Spread 2/3 cup glaze, then remaining raspberry cream over. Place atop first layer, using tart pan as aid. Top with third cake layer, pressing lightly to adhere (reserve fourth layer for another use). Smooth filling at edges of cake. Spread thin layer of glaze over sides of cake. Chill until glaze sets, about 10 minutes.
Spread remaining glaze over sides of cake. Spread or pipe reserved 1 1/2 cups whipped cream mixture over top of cake. Garnish with additional berries, if desired. Gently remove waxed paper from under cake. Cover cake with cake dome; chill at least 1 hour and up to 8 hours.

Banana Coconut Crunch Cake 
1/2 cup sweetened flaked coconut
1 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
1/2 cup mashed banana (about 1 large)
3 tablespoons crème fraîche or sour cream
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup water
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
2 tablespoons dark rum
1/2 pound cream cheese, softened
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar, sifted
1 teaspoon vanilla
2/3 cup crisp banana chips

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter an 8-inch square, 2-inch deep baking pan and line bottom with wax paper. Butter paper and dust with flour, knocking out excess flour.
On a baking sheet toast coconut in the middle of the oven, stirring once, until golden, about 6 minutes.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. In a small bowl whisk together eggs, bananas, crème fraîche or sour cream, and vanilla.
In a bowl of a standing electric mixer beat together butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in flour and egg mixtures alternately, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating after each addition until batter is smooth, and fold in coconut.
Turn batter into pan, smoothing top, and bake in middle of oven until a tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 10 minutes. Run a thin knife around edges of pan and invert cake onto rack. Remove wax paper carefully and cool cake completely. Cake layer may be made 3 days ahead and chilled, wrapped in plastic wrap and foil.
In a small saucepan bring water and sugar to a boil over moderate heat, stirring until sugar is dissolved, and simmer 1 minute. Stir in rum and simmer 1 minute. Cool syrup completely. Syrup may be made 3 days ahead and chilled, covered.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together cream cheese and butter until light and fluffy. Add confectioners' sugar, 1/2 cup at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in vanilla and pinch salt. In a food processor coarsely grind banana chips and stir into frosting.
With serrated knife halve cake layer horizontally and with pastry brush dab cut sides with rum syrup, using it all. Spread half of frosting on cut side of bottom layer and arrange top layer, cut side down, on frosting. Spread remaining frosting on top of cake. Cake may be assembled 3 hours ahead and chilled, covered with an overturned bowl or in a cake keeper.

Chocolate Genoise with Chocolate-Peppermint Ganache 
1/3 cup water
1/3 cup sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons dark crème de cacao
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons cake flour
1/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
5 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled
36 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
2 1/2 cups whipping cream
1/4 cup light corn syrup
1 1/2 teaspoons peppermint extract
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Chocolate curls (about 6 ounces)

Stir water and sugar in small saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat; boil. Remove from heat. Stir in creme de cacao and vanilla. (Can be made 1 week ahead. Cover; chill.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides; line bottom with parchment paper. Cover cake rack with paper towel; spray paper towel with nonstick spray.
Sift flour, cocoa powder and baking soda into small bowl 3 times. Combine eggs, egg yolk, sugar and salt in large stainless steel bowl. {Step One} Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water (do not let bottom of bowl touch water). Whisk until mixture is just warm to touch (thermometer will register 110 degrees F), about 2 minutes. Remove mixture from over water. {Step Two} Using electric mixer, beat until mixture triples in volume and falls in heavy ribbon when beaters are lifted, about 5 minutes. Beat in vanilla. Sift flour mixture over in 3 additions; fold gently to incorporate each time. Drizzle butter over and fold in (do not overmix or batter will deflate). Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cut around pan sides; release sides. Turn cake out onto towel-covered rack; peel off parchment. Cool. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap; store at room temperature.)
Place chocolate in large bowl. Bring cream to boil in small saucepan. Pour cream over chocolate. {Step Three} Add corn syrup and extracts; whisk until smooth. Cool to room temperature, stirring occasionally.
Transfer 3 cups ganache to medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat until very thick and light colored, about 12 minutes.
Using long serrated knife, cut genoise horizontally into 3 layers. Place 1 cake layer on cardboard round or pan bottom. Brush cake with 3 tablespoons syrup. Spread 1/3 of whipped ganache over. Repeat 2 more times with remaining cake layers, syrup and whipped ganache. Spread 1 cup unwhipped ganache thinly over top and sides of cake. Refrigerate cake until coating sets, about 10 minutes.
If necessary, warm remaining un-whipped ganache until just pourable. Place cake on rack set over sheet of foil. Pour ganache over cake as glaze, spreading to cover top and sides smoothly. Chill until glaze begins to set, about 30 minutes. Place cake on platter. Press chocolate curls onto sides. Chill at least 2 hours.

Lemon Raspberry Wedding Cake 
2 1/2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/4 teaspoons salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) plus 2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups sugar
3 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
1 cup milk
1 1/2 tablespoons freshly grated lemon zest
Note: 2 separate batches of this batter are required in this recipe (do not double)
2/3 cup sugar
1 cup water
zest of 1 large lemon removed in strips with a vegetable peeler
1/3 cup fresh lemon juice
2 tablespoons eau-de-vie de framboise
two 9-inch cardboard rounds*
two 7-inch cardboard rounds*
two 6-inch cardboard rounds*, trimmed to form 5-inch rounds
Lemon Meringue Buttercream
about 5 cups raspberries, picked over
five 8-inch plastic straws
66 leaf tip*
70 leaf tip*
113 leaf tip*
Note: A cake-decorating turntable* is extremely helpful for assembling and decorating a wedding cake.
crystallized edible flowers and mint leaves*
Crème Fraîche Ice Cream
additional raspberries
*available at specialty baking stores

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and line a buttered 10-inch round cake pan (at least 2 inches deep) with a round of wax paper. Butter paper and dust pan with flour, knocking out excess.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. In another bowl with an electric mixer cream butter with sugar until light and fluffy and beat in eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and vanilla. Add flour mixture and milk alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating until just combined after each addition, and beat in zest (do not overmix).
Pour batter into prepared pan and bake in middle of oven 35 to 40 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Cool cake in pan on a rack 5 minutes and invert onto rack. Peel off paper and cool cake completely.
Line a buttered 6-inch round cake pan and a buttered 8-inch round cake pan (each at least 2 inches deep) with rounds of wax paper. Butter paper and dust pans with flour, knocking out excess.
Make batter in same manner.
Pour 1 3/4 cups batter into prepared 6-inch pan. Pour remaining batter into prepared 8-inch pan. Bake 6-inch cake in middle of oven 30 to 35 minutes and 8-inch cake 35 to 40 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Cool cakes in pans on racks 5 minutes and invert onto racks. Peel off paper and cool cakes completely.
Cake layers may be made 2 weeks ahead, wrapped well in plastic wrap and foil, and frozen. Defrost cake layers (without unwrapping) at room temperature.
In a small saucepan combine sugar, water, and zest and bring to a boil, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Remove pan from heat and let syrup cool completely. Discard zest and stir in lemon juice and framboise. Syrup may be made 2 weeks ahead and chilled in an airtight container.
With a long serrated knife halve each layer horizontally. Put each 10-inch layer, cut side up, on a 9-inch cardboard round. Put 8-inch layers similarly on 7-inch rounds and 6-inch layers on 5-inch rounds. Brush cut sides of all 6 layers generously with syrup, dividing it evenly among layers, and let layers stand 15 minutes to absorb syrup.
Spread about 1 1/2 cups buttercream on top half of 10-inch layer, cut side up, and arrange enough raspberries, side by side and open ends down, in concentric circles to cover entire layer. Invert bottom half of 10-inch layer, cut side down, on top of berries and gently press layers together to form an even tier. (Discard top cardboard round.) Frost top and sides smoothly with some remaining buttercream and chill while assembling remaining 2 tiers.
Assemble and frost 8-inch tier in same manner (use about 1 cup buttercream between layers) and chill while assembling remaining tier. Assemble and frost 6-inch tier in same manner (use about 2/3 cup buttercream between layers) and chill until buttercream is firm.
Cut 3 straws in half and insert 1 straw piece all the way into center of 10-inch bottom tier. Trim straw level with top of tier and insert remaining 5 straw pieces in same manner in a circle about 1 1/2 inches from center straw. (Straws serve to support tiers.) Carefully put 8-inch middle tier (still on cardboard) in center of bottom tier. Cut remaining 2 straws in half and insert into middle tier in same manner, with 1 straw piece in center and remaining 3 straw pieces in a circle around it. Carefully put 6-inch top tier (still on cardboard) in center of middle tier.
Fill in any gaps between tiers with buttercream and transfer remaining buttercream to a pastry bag filled with a small (#66) leaf tip. Pipe a decorative border around top edge of top tier. With a medium-sized (#70) leaf tip pipe border in same manner around bottom edges of top and middle tiers. With same tip pipe 5 evenly spaced ribbons from top to bottom of cake. (These ribbons will support cascades of crystallized flowers.)
Transfer cake to a cake stand or other serving plate and with a larger (#113) leaf tip pipe border around bottom edge of cake. With same tip pipe mound of buttercream on top of cake. (This mound will support crystallized flower arrangement.)
Arrange crystallized flowers and mint leaves decoratively on top and sides of cake. Chill cake at least 6 hours and up to 1 day. Let cake stand at cool room temperature (buttercream is sensitive to warm temperatures) 2 to 4 hours before serving.
Serve cake with Crème Fraîche Ice Cream and additonal raspberries.

Chocolate Mousse Cake with Cinnamon Cream 
1/3 cup of water
1/3 cup sugar
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
12 ounces semisweet or bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped coarse
6 large eggs
1/3 cup strong brewed coffee
2 tablespoons dark rum if desired
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter an 8-inch round cake pan (about 2 inches deep) and line bottom with a round of parchment paper or foil.
In medium saucepan bring water and sugar to a simmer over moderate heat, stirring occasionally. Add butter and simmer, stirring occasionally, until melted. Remove pan from heat and add chocolate, swirling pan to submerge chocolate in hot syrup. Let chocolate stand in syrup 3 minutes and whisk until smooth.
In a large bowl whisk together eggs, coffee, rum, and cinnamon. Add chocolate mixture, whisking until well combined, and pour into cake pan.
Put cake in pan in larger pan and add enough water to reach halfway up side of cake pan. Bake cake in middle of oven 45 minutes, or until slightly firm to the touch. Cool cake completely in pan on rack.
Cake may be kept in pan, wrapped in plastic wrap, and chilled 1 week or frozen 1 month. Thaw cake completely before proceeding.
Run a thin knife around pan to loosen cake and put pan on hot stove burner for 3 to 4 seconds. Invert cake onto a plate and remove parchment or foil. Bring cake to room temperature.
In a bowl with an electric mixer or whisk beat cream with sugar and cinnamon until it just holds stiff peaks.
Just before serving, spread cream over top of cake or spoon onto plates alongside individual pieces.

Hazelnut-Topped Apricot Bar Cookies 
1 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 cup all purpose flour
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup apricot preserves

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter bottom of 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan. Combine nuts, 1 cup sugar and cinnamon in processor; blend until nuts are finely ground.
Combine 1/2 cup sugar, flour, butter, egg yolks, vanilla and salt in processor; blend just until combined. Spread dough over bottom of prepared pan. Bake until golden, about 15 minutes. Cool 10 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Spread preserves over crust. Beat whites in medium bowl until stiff but not dry. Fold in nut mixture. Spread nut meringue over preserves layer. Bake until meringue is firm to touch, about 25 minutes. Cool completely. Cut into squares.

Warm Pear and Walnut Cake with Lemon Custard Sauce 
1/4 cup sugar
2 large egg yolks
1 cup half and half
2 tablespoons grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons water
2 large Anjou pears, peeled, cored, cut into thin wedges
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) plus 1 tablespoon unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
6 tablespoons milk (do not use low-fat or nonfat)
3 tablespoons brandy
6 tablespoons finely chopped walnuts, toasted

Whisk sugar and egg yolks in medium bowl to blend. Bring half and half and lemon peel to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Gradually whisk hot half and half mixture into yolk mixture. Return to saucepan. Stir over medium heat until custard thickens and leaves path on back of spoon when finger is drawn across, about 5 minutes (do not boil). Strain custard into bowl; discard solids. Whisk lemon juice and vanilla into custard. Chill until cold, about 3 hours. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Stir sugar and water in heavy small saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat; boil without stirring until syrup turns deep amber, occasionally swirling pan and brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush, about 10 minutes. Pour caramel over bottom of prepared pan. Overlap pears atop caramel.
Mix flour, baking powder and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until creamy. Add eggs and lemon peel; beat until light and fluffy. Combine milk and brandy in small bowl. Mix dry ingredients into batter alternately with milk mixture in 3 additions each. Stir in nuts.
Pour batter atop pears in pan. Bake cake until golden on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool in pan 5 minutes. Run small knife around edges of pan to loosen cake. Place platter over cake and invert onto platter. Let stand 1 minute. Remove pan. Serve cake warm with cold sauce.

Maple Walnut Pound Cake with Maple Glaze 
1 3/4 cups coarsely chopped walnuts (about 6 ounces), toasted
2 1/4 cups cake flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
5 large eggs
1/2 cup pure maple syrup
3/4 teaspoon maple flavoring
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
2 tablespoons pure maple syrup
2 tablespoons whipping cream
6 tablespoons powdered sugar, sifted
12 walnut halves

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 12-cup Bundt pan. Finely grind walnuts in processor. Sift flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar into large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in maple syrup, maple flavoring and vanilla extract (butter may look curdled). Mix in dry ingredients. Fold in ground walnuts.
Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake cake until top is golden and tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Transfer pan to rack; cool cake about 10 minutes. Using small knife, cut around sides and center of pan to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Wrap tightly in foil and store at room temperature.)
Melt butter with maple syrup and cream in heavy small saucepan. Remove from heat. Add powdered sugar and whisk until smooth. Cool glaze until slightly thickened, about 15 minutes. Drizzle glaze over pound cake. Arrange walnut halves decoratively on top of cake. Let cake stand until glaze sets, about 15 minutes.

Individual Spongecakes 
2 large eggs
1/3 cup sugar
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon cornstarch
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled slightly

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. and line nine 1/2-cup muffin tins with paper liners.
In a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water whisk together eggs and sugar until sugar is dissolved, 1 to 2 minutes. Remove top of double boiler or bowl from heat and with a hand-held electric mixer beat mixture at moderately high speed until doubled in volume, about 3 minutes.
Sift flour, cornstarch, and a pinch salt over egg mixture and fold in gently but thoroughly. Drizzle butter over batter and fold in gently but thoroughly.
Divide batter among muffin tins and bake in middle of oven 12 to 15 minutes, or until pale golden. Cool spongecakes in tins on a rack 10 minutes. Remove spongecakes from tins and cool completely on rack. Spongecakes may be made 1 day ahead and kept in an airtight container at room temperature.

Lemon Verbena Pound Cake with Strawberries 
1 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons finely chopped fresh lemon verbena or 1 tablespoon freshly grated lemon zest
1 tablespoon freshly grated lemon zest
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup granulated sugar
3 large eggs
3/4 teaspoon vanilla
2 tablespoons milk
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon confectioners' sugar
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
Accompaniment: strawberries

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. and butter and flour a 1-quart kugelhopf pan, knocking out excess flour.
In a bowl whisk together flour, baking powder, salt, verbena (or zest), and zest. In another bowl with an electric mixer beat butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in vanilla. Beat in half of flour mixture. Beat in milk and lemon juice and beat in remaining flour mixture until just combined.
Spoon batter into pan, smoothing top, and bake in middle of oven 45 to 55 minutes, or until golden brown on top and a tester comes out clean. Cool cake in pan on a rack 15 minutes and invert onto rack to cool completely.
In a small bowl whisk confectioners's sugar, a little at a time, into lemon juice until smooth and thick.
When cake is completely cooled, drizzle glaze over cake and let it drip down sides. Cake may be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered.
Serve cake at room temperature with strawberries.

Caramel-Peanut Butter Mousse Tart 
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
3 tablespoons sugar
7 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 egg yolk
2 tablespoons whipping cream
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup plus 2 tablespoons packed golden brown sugar
3 tablespoons plus 1/4 cup whipping cream
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
1 3-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/3 cup creamy peanut butter (do not use old-fashioned style or freshly ground)
1teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup packed golden brown sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup water
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
4 tablespoons whipping cream
3/4 cup lightly salted roasted peanuts
Grated white chocolate (optional)

Mix flour and sugar in processor. Add butter; cut in using on/off turns until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add yolk, cream and vanilla; blend using on/off turns until dough begins to clump together. Gather into ball; flatten into disk. Wrap in plastic; chill 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Roll out dough on lightly floured surface to 11-inch round. Transfer dough to 9-inch-diameter tart pan with removable bottom. Trim edges. Freeze crust 15 minutes. Line with foil. Fill with dried beans or pie weights. Bake until sides are set, about 10 minutes. Remove foil and beans; bake crust until golden, piercing with toothpick if crust bubbles, about 20 minutes more. Cool completely on rack.
Combine 1/3 cup sugar, 3 tablespoons cream and butter in heavy small saucepan. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves and butter melts. Pour into medium bowl and cool to room temperature. Add cream cheese, peanut butter and vanilla to brown sugar mixture. Using electric mixer, beat until smooth. Whisk remaining 1/4 cup cream with remaining 2 tablespoons brown sugar in small bowl to stiff peaks; fold into peanut butter mixture. Spoon filling into tart shell; smooth top. Refrigerate until firm, about 1 hour.
Stir first 4 ingredients and 2 tablespoons cream in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to medium; stir slowly until clip-on candy thermometer registers 222 degrees F, about 8 minutes. Remove from heat. Add 2 tablespoons cream and nuts. Let stand just until cool, about 20 minutes. Spoon over filling. Chill until set, at least 2 hours or overnight.
Remove pan sides from tart. Transfer tart to platter. Sprinkle white chocolate around edges, if desired.

Chocolate Apricot Kugelhupf 
1 1/2 cups apricot nectar
1 1/2 cups sifted all purpose flour
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup nonfat dry milk powder
1 envelope fast-rising dry yeast
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs
3 large egg yolks
3 tablespoons apricot-flavored brandy or apricot nectar
1 1/4 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1 envelope fast-rising dry yeast
2 tablespoons hot water (120 degrees F. to 125 degrees F.)
3 1/2 cups sifted all purpose flour
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
6 ounces moist dried apricots, quartered
2 tablespoons firmly packed golden brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
Powdered sugar
2 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 cups plus 2 tablespoons whipping cream
2 tablespoons sugar
3 tablespoons apricot-flavored brandy or apricot nectar

Boil apricot nectar in heavy medium saucepan over high heat until reduced to 1 cup, about 5 minutes. Pour reduced nectar into large bowl. Cool to 120 degrees F. to 125 degrees F. Whisk in flour, sugar, milk powder and yeast. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and let rise in warm draft-free area until double in volume, about 30 minutes.
Generously butter 12-cup kugelhupf pan. Using electric mixer, cream butter with sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in eggs and egg yolks 1 at a time. Beat in apricot brandy, salt, vanilla and ginger. Combine yeast and 2 tablespoons hot water in small bowl and stir until yeast dissolves. Mix yeast mixture and sponge into butter mixture. Gradually mix in 3 cups flour. Combine chocolate, apricots, brown sugar and cinnamon in medium bowl. Mix into dough.
Spoon dough into prepared pan. Cover tightly with plastic wrap and clean kitchen towel. Let stand in warm draft-free area until dough rises just to top of pan, about 3 hours.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Bake kugelhupf until deep brown and cracking on top and tester inserted in center comes out clean, about 48 minutes. Cool on rack 20 minutes. Turn out onto rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Return to pan, cover tightly and store at room temperature.)
Stir chocolate and 2 tablespoons cream in heavy small saucepan over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Cool. Beat remaining 2 cups cream and sugar in large bowl until soft peaks form. Add brandy and continue beating until stiff peaks form. Pour chocolate mixture over cream and fold together until whipped cream is lightly streaked with chocolate. Transfer to serving bowl; chill. (Can be prepared 8 hours ahead.)
Place kugelhupf on platter. Lightly sift powdered sugar over. Cut into wedges. Serve, passing whipped cream separately if desired.

Chocolate Cake with Caramel-Coconut-Almond Filling 
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 cup water
1 tablespoon instant espresso powder or coffee powder
2 1/4 cups (packed) dark brown sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sour cream
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup water
1 cup whipping cream
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut (about 2 1/2 ounces), toasted
1 cup thinly sliced almonds (about 4 ounces), toasted
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups powdered sugar, sifted
1/2 cup sour cream
2 cups sliced almonds (about 8 ounces), toasted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms with waxed paper. Butter waxed paper. Combine chocolate, 1 cup water and espresso powder in heavy small saucepan. Stir over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Remove from heat. Cool completely, stirring occasionally.
Using electric mixer, beat brown sugar and butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add chocolate mixture and vanilla and beat until blended. Sift four, baking soda, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Add dry ingredients to butter mixture alternately with sour cream in 3 additions, beginning with dry ingredients and beating well after each addition.
Divide batter equally among prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Using small knife, cut around sides of pans to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks. Remove waxed paper; cool completely.
Combine sugar and 1/4 cup water in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to high and boil without stirring until syrup turns deep amber, brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush and swirling occasionally, about 10 minutes. Remove from heat. Carefully add cream (mixture will bubble vigorously). Place pan over medium low heat and stir until caramel bits melt, about 5 minutes. Stir in coconut and 1 cup almonds. Cool filling until thick enough to spread, stirring occasionally, about 45 minutes.
Melt butter and chocolate in heavy small saucepan over low heat, stirring until smooth. Transfer to large bowl. Stir in vanilla. Whisk in 1 cup powdered sugar and 1/4 cup sour cream. Whisk in remaining powdered sugar and sour cream.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread half of filling evenly over top, leaving 1/2-inch border. Top with second cake layer. Spread with remaining filling, leaving 1/2-inch boarder. Top with remaining cake layer. Spread frosting over sides and top of cake. Press 2 cups sliced almonds onto sides of cake. Using pastry spatula, swirl frosting on top of cake decoratively. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; store at room temperature.)

Cinderella Cheesecake 
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate chopped
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1/2 cup sifted all purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon baking powder
2 large eggs
1 cup firmly packed golden brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 ounce bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
12 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup firmly packed golden brown sugar
3 large eggs
1/2 cup sour cream
1 1/3 cups creamy peanut butter (do not use old-fashioned or freshly ground), about 12 ounces
3/4 cup sour cream
2 teaspoons sugar
1/2 cup creamy peanut butter

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Dust pan lightly with flour, tap out excess.
Melt unsweetened chocolate and butter in heavy small saucepan over low heat. Cool. Blend flour, salt and baking powder in small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat eggs and sugar in medium bowl until slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are lifted, about 4 minutes. Scrape down sides of bowl. Beat in melted chocolate mixture, vanilla and chopped chocolate. Add dry ingredients and mix until just blended; do not over beat.
Spread 1 cup brownie batter over bottom of prepared pan. Bake until firm, about 17 minutes. Cool baked bottom crust in pan in freezer, about 15 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Blend cream cheese and sugar in processor until smooth. Add eggs and sour cream and process using on/off turns until mixture is smooth, stopping to scrape down sides of bowl as needed. Blend in peanut butter using on/off turns.
Using small knife, spread remaining brownie batter evenly around sides of pan, sealing batter to bottom crust. Pour in filling, which will not be as high as brownie batter. Bake until center of cheesecake is gently set and brownie sides have fallen to form a 1-inch-wide ring around filling, about 30 minutes.
Blend sour cream and sugar in small bowl. Spread evenly atop cheesecake to within 3/4 inch of edge. Bake cheesecake 1 more minute.
Set cake on rack. Using small sharp knife, cut around top edge of cake to loosen from pan sides. Cool completely. Place peanut butter in pastry bag fitted with small (no. 1) star tip. Pipe tiny rosettes of peanut butter around edge of sour cream. Refrigerate cake until rosettes are firm, about 30 minutes. Cover pan tightly with foil and chill overnight. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.)
Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Release sides. Transfer cheesecake to platter. Cut into wedges and serve.

Chocolate-Frangelico Cheesecake 
20 chocolate-covered graham cracker cookies
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
2/3 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar
1/4 cup sour cream
5 teaspoons cornstarch
3 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup Frangelico (hazelnut liqueur)
1/3 cup almonds, toasted, chopped
1 teaspoon almond extract
4 teaspoons unsweetened cocoa powder

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 425 degrees F. Wrap foil tightly around outside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Finely grind graham cracker cookies in processor. Add butter and process until blended. Press mixture onto bottom (not sides) of prepared pan. Set aside.
Blend cream cheese, 2/3 cup sugar, sour cream and cornstarch in processor. Add eggs, yolk and vanilla; process until well blended, scraping down sides of processor occasionally. Transfer 3/4 cup cream cheese mixture to small bowl; set aside. Add Frangelico, almonds and almond extract to remaining cream cheese mixture in processor. Blend well, using on/off turns. Spoon 2 1/2 cups Frangelico mixture over crust.
Mix cocoa powder and 3 tablespoons sugar into reserved 3/4 cup cream cheese mixture. Spoon 2/3 cup cocoa mixture over Frangelico mixture in pan. Spoon remaining Frangelico mixture over cocoa mixture. Drop remaining cocoa mixture over by spoonfuls. Run tip of small knife through batter several times to marbleize.
Bake cheesecake 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F and bake cake until sides are puffed and center is set, about 45 minutes. Transfer cake to rack. Using small knife, cut around sides of pan to loosen cake. Cool cake completely in pan. Cover; chill overnight. Remove pan sides from cake. Cut into wedges and serve.

Pound Cake with Fresh Strawberries and Balsamic Sabayon 
1 /4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/4 cup water
4 large egg yolks
3 tablespoons balsamic vinegar
1/2 cup chilled whipping cream
2 12-ounce baskets strawberries, hulled, quartered
2 tablespoons sugar
1 16-ounce pound cake, cut into thin slices

Combine first 3 ingredients and 2 tablespoons vinegar in medium stainless steel bowl. Set bowl over pan of simmering water (do not allow bowl to touch water). Whisk until sabayon triples in volume and thermometer registers 160 degrees F, 4 minutes. Place bowl over larger bowl filled with ice and water; whisk sabayon until cool.
Beat cream in another medium bowl to soft peaks. Add sabayon and fold together. Cover and refrigerate sabayon.
Puree 3/4 cup quartered berries with 2 tablespoons sugar and remaining 1 tablespoon balsamic vinegar in processor. Pour puree into large bowl. Add remaining berries and toss to coat.
Arrange 3 thin cake slices on each of 6 plates. Spoon berry mixture alongside. Top with sabayon and serve.

Cocoa Angel Food Cake with Orange Glaze 
1 cup self-rising flour
1/3 cup sifted unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder such as Droste (sift before measuring)
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups egg whites (from 10 to 11 large eggs)
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons vanilla
Orange Glaze

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. and have ready an ungreased 10-inch tube pan (about 4 inched deep) with a removable bottom.
In a small bowl whisk together flour, cocoa powder, and 1/2 cup sugar. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat whites with salt on medium speed until white, opaque, and beginning to hold their shape. Gradually add the remaining 3/4 cup sugar, beating at high speed until whites hold soft (not stiff), slightly glossy peaks. Beat in vanilla.
Sift one third cocoa mixture over whites and fold in gently but thoroughly, scraping bottom of bowl to prevent lumps. Sift and fold in remaining cocoa mixture, half at a time, in same manner and pour batter into pan. With a knife, make series of side by side chops in batter to remove air bubbles and smooth top. Bake cake in middle of oven 40 to 45 minutes, or until firm to the touch. Invert cake over neck of a bottle and cool completely.
Run a thin knife around edge of cake and remove side of pan. Run knife under bottom of cake and around center tube to loosen cake and invert cake onto a rack.
While orange glaze is still warm, quickly pour over cake, spreading evenly over top with a spatula and allowing excess to drip down outside. (Alternatively, spoon glaze into a plastic bag and squeeze into one corner. Snip off corner to make small hole in bag and streak glaze over cake from center outward.)
While glaze is still wet (to avoid cracking), transfer cake to a platter. When glaze is set, cover cake loosely with plastic wrap or place under a cake dome and keep at room temperature until ready to serve.
If cake is kept more than 1 day (before or after serving), it should be wrapped in plastic wrap and frozen. Bring cake to room temperature before serving.

Apple Cobbler Cake 
6 large tart green apples (about 2 1/2 pounds), peeled, quartered, cored, thinly sliced
2 cups plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 tablespoons plus 3 cups all purpose flour
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled
1/2 cup water
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 13x9x2-inch baking pan. Place apples in large bowl. Add 1 cup sugar, cinnamon, 2 tablespoons flour and lemon juice and toss to blend well.
Stir in 1 cup sugar, 3 cups flour, baking powder and salt in medium bowl to blend. Whisk eggs, melted butter, 1/2 cup water and vanilla extract in small bowl to blend. Add egg mixture to dry ingredients and stir until thick dough forms. Spread 1 3/4 cups dough over bottom of prepared pan. Top with apple mixture. Drop remaining dough by tablespoonfuls evenly over apple mixture. Sprinkle with remaining 2 tablespoons sugar. Cover pan tightly with foil.
Bake cake covered 30 minutes. Uncover pan. Bake until cake is golden brown and apples are tender, about 45 minutes longer. Transfer pan to rack; cool cake 30 minutes. Cut cake into squares and serve warm.

French Apple Cake 
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1 3/4 cups sugar
1/3 cup water
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 large Granny Smith apples (about 1 1/4 pounds), peeled, cored, thinly sliced
1 cup all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 large egg yolks
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons Calvados, applejack or other brandy
2 teaspoons vanilla
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Coat pan with sugar; tap out excess. Melt 1/4 cup butter in heavy large skillet over medium-high heat. Stir in 3/4 cup sugar, water and cinnamon and bring to boil. Add apples and cook until apples are just tender, turning frequently, about 15 minutes. Remove apples, using slotted spoon, and arrange decoratively in bottom of pan. Continue boiling liquid in skillet until thick and syrupy, about 4 minutes. Pour over apples.
Sift flour, baking powder and salt into small bowl. Whisk remaining 1 cup sugar, egg yolks, eggs, Calvados and vanilla in large bowl to blend. Gently stir in dry ingredients. Fold in 1/2 cup melted butter. Pour batter over apples in pan. Bake until toothpick inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool cake in pan 5 minutes. Run small sharp knife around side of pan to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto platter. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Poppy Seed Tea Cake with Cardamom Streusel 
6 tablespoons sugar
6 tablespoons all purpose flour
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
3/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 1/3 cups cake flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/4 teaspoon salt
11 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
1/4 cup orange juice
2 teaspoons grated orange peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup poppy seeds (about 2 ounces)

For streusel: Mix all ingredients in small bowl until moist clumps form.
For cake: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 12-cup angel food cake pan with removable bottom. Sift first 5 ingredients twice into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Mix in sour cream, juice, peel and vanilla. Beat in dry ingredients to blend. Mix in poppy seeds. Transfer batter to prepared pan (batter will fill less than half of pan).
Bake cake 25 minutes. Sprinkle streusel over top of cake. Continue to bake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool in pan on rack. Using small knife, cut around sides of pan and center tube to loosen cake. Push cake up. Cut cake free from pan bottom. Transfer cake to platter.

Ginger-Spice Cookies 
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 large egg
2 tablespoons mild-flavored (light) molasses
Sugar

Mix flour, cinnamon, ginger, baking soda, salt and cloves in medium bowl. Beat butter and brown sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in egg and molasses. Beat in dry ingredients (dough will be very soft). Cover bowl with plastic. Refrigerate overnight.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 large baking sheets. Place sugar in shallow dish. Form dough into 1 1/4-inch balls. Roll each ball in sugar to coat. Arrange cookies on prepared baking sheets, spacing 2 inches apart. Using bottom of glass, gently press dough balls to form 1 1/2- to 1 3/4-inch rounds. Bake until cookies puff slightly but are still soft, about 12 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Apple Cider Cupcakes with Cider Cream Cheese Icing 
3 cups unpasteurized apple cider
3/4 cup vegetable shortening
1 3/4 cups sugar
2 large eggs
2 cups all-purpose flour, sifted
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups apple cider
6 ounces cream cheese, cut into bits and softened
1/2 cup sifted confectioners' sugar

In a large saucepan boil the cider until it is reduced to about 1 1/2 cups and let it cool. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together the shortening and the sugar until the mixture is fluffy and beat in the eggs, 1 at a time. Into the bowl sift together the flour, the cloves, the cinnamon, the baking soda, and a pinch of salt, stir in the reduced cider, and combine the mixture well. Divide the batter among 18 paper-lined 1/2-cup muffin tins and bake the cupcakes in the middle of a preheated 375 degrees F. oven for 25 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Transfer the cupcakes to a rack, let them cool in the tins, and remove them from the tins.
In a saucepan boil the cider until it is reduced to about 1/4 cup and let it cool. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together the cream cheese, the confectioners' sugar, the reduced cider, and a pinch of salt until the icing is smooth.
Spread each cupcake with some of the icing.

Lemon-Lattice White Chocolate Cake 
3/4 cup fresh lemon juice
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
3 large eggs
6 large egg yolks
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
2 tablespoons grated lemon peel
2 1/4 cups whipping cream
4 1/2 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt), chopped
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 3/4 cups sifted all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
4 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt), chopped
1 cup whipping cream
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups sugar
4 large eggs, separated

Combine lemon juice and cornstarch in heavy medium saucepan, stirring until cornstarch dissolves. Whisk in remaining ingredients. Cook over medium heat until mixture is thick and smooth and just begins to boil, stirring constantly, about 7 minutes. Transfer to medium bowl. Place plastic wrap directly on surface of curd to prevent skin from forming. Refrigerate until chilled, about 6 hours. (Can be prepared days ahead.)
Combine 1/2 cup cream and chocolate in heavy small saucepan. Stir over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Transfer to large bowl. Whisk in remaining 1 3/4 cups cream and vanilla. Refrigerate until well chilled, about 6 hours. (Can be prepared up to 1 day ahead.)
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms with waxed paper. Butter paper. Dust pans with flour; tap out excess. Sift flour, baking powder and salt together into medium bowl. Repeat sifting.
Stir chocolate and 1/2 cup cream in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Mix in remaining 1/2 cup cream, milk and vanilla.
Using electric mixer, beat butter and 1 cup sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in yolks. Stir dry ingredients into butter mixture alternately with white chocolate mixture, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Using electric mix fitted with clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in medium bowl to soft peaks. Gradually beat in remaining 1 cup sugar. Continue beating until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into cake batter in 2 additions. Divide batter among prepared cake pans. Bake until tester inserted in center comes out clean and cakes are beginning to pull away from sides of pans, about 24 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks, peel off waxed paper and cool completely. (Can be prepared 4 hours ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat frosting in another large bowl until stiff peaks form. Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 2/3 cup lemon curd evenly atop cake layer. Spread 3/4 cup frosting atop curd. Top with second cake layer. Spread cake with 2/3 cup curd, then with 3/4 cup frosting. Top with third cake layer. Frost top and sides of entire cake evenly with 3 cups frosting.
Place remaining lemon curd in pastry bag fitted with no. 2 star tip. Pipe circle of curd around top of cake, 1/2 inch from edge. Pipe evenly spaced diagonal lines inside circle, creating lattice pattern. (Reserve remaining curd for another use.) Spoon remaining frosting into clean pastry bag fitted with no. 2 star tip. Pipe ruffled border around top and bottom edges of cake. (Can be prepared up to 6 hours ahead. Refrigerate.) Let stand at room temperature 30 minutes before serving.

The Ultimate Valentine Cake 
3 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt or Tobler), chopped
3 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
9 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt or Tobler), chopped
5 large eggs, separated, room temperature
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
1tablespoon framboise liqueur or Grand Marnier
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted, warm
3/4 cup cake flour
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
3 tablespoon light corn syrup
3 tablespoons framboise liqueur or Grand Marnier
1 1-pint basket strawberries, hulled and halved
1 1/2-pint basket raspberries
1 1-pint basket strawberries with stems, halved through stem end (stems left intact)
2 1-pint baskets strawberries, hulled and sliced
3 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons framboise liqueur or Grand Marnier
2 1/2-pint baskets raspberries

Cut heart-shaped piece of waxed paper about 4 inches larger than 8x2-inch bottomless heart-shaped cake pan. Place on cookie sheet. Lightly oil inside of heart pan with vegetable oil. Butter outside of pan. Place heart pan atop paper on cookie sheet. Press waxed paper up onto outside of buttered pan to adhere, to prevent chocolate from leaking out. Place white chocolate in bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water; stir until smooth. Remove from over water. Place bittersweet chocolate in another bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water; stir until smooth. Remove from over water.
Drop white chocolate by spoonfuls inside heart, spacing apart and allowing some to touch inner edge of pan. Drop bittersweet chocolate by spoonfuls into spaces. Move heart pan gently from side to side to distribute chocolate evenly and fill in heart completely. Swirl mixtures together using tip of knife. Holding cake pan to cookie sheet with hands, tap sheet firmly on counter to flatten chocolate. Freeze until firm, about 20 minutes.
Run small sharp knife around outside of pan to loosen chocolate. Remove pan. Refrigerate chocolate lid until ready to use. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead. Cover with plastic wrap.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 8x2-inch bottomless heart-shaped cake pan. Cut heart-shaped piece of heavy-duty foil 4 inches larger that heart cake pan. Butter and flour foil. Place on heavy large cookie sheet or double-stacked cookie sheets. Center heart pan on foil. Wrap foil around outsides of pan, folding, pressing and crimping firmly to adhere, to batter from leaking out. Place white chocolate in bowl. Set bowl over sauce-pan of simmering water; stir until smooth. Remove from over water.
Using electric mixer, beat yolks and 1/2 cup sugar in large bowl until pale yellow and slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are lifted, about 3 minutes. Beat in framboise and vanilla, then butter. Add melted chocolate and beat until just combined.
Using electric mixer fitted with clean dry beaters, beat whites in large bowl to soft peaks. Gradually add remaining 1 tablespoon sugar and beat until just stiff. Mix flour into chocolate mixture (batter will be very thick). Stir in 1/4 of whites to lighten. Gradually fold in remaining whites. Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake 45 minutes. Cover top with foil. Bake until tip of small knife inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 20 minutes (cake will be well browned). Cool in pan on rack.
Melt chocolate, butter and corn syrup in heavy medium saucepan over low heat, stirring until smooth. Stir in framboise. Cool icing until firm enough to spread, about 2 hours.
Run small sharp knife around cake pan sides to loosen. Cut cake into 2 layers using serrated knife. Place bottom cake layer on platter cut side up. Spread 2/3 cup icing over. Cover with top cake layer cut side down. Spread all but 1/2 cup icing over top and sides of cake. Refrigerate cake until icing is set, about 1 hour. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate cake and remaining icing separately. Rewarm icing over very low heat until just spreadable before continuing with recipe.)
Mound some hulled strawberries and raspberries on right half of heart cake. Position lid atop berries at angle, moving berries around so that left edge of lid rests on left edge of cake. Tuck half of strawberries with stems, stems facing out, between cake and lid. Spread remaining icing over sides of cake where lid is attached, smoothing with spatula to create boxlike appearance. Reserve remaining strawberries and raspberries for garnish. Refrigerate cake until icing is set, about 1 hour. (Can be assembled 12 hours ahead.)
Toss two 1-pint baskets strawberries with sugar and framboise in large bowl. Chill at least 1 hour or up to 6 hours. Add raspberries and toss gently.
Arrange reserved berries on platter around cake. Serve cake, spooning compote over each piece.

Fallen Chocolate Cake Squares à la Mode with Butterscotch Sauce 
9 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
3/4 cup sugar
5 large eggs, separated
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon salt
coffee ice cream
Butterscotch Sauce
whipped cream if desired

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. Butter and flour a 9-inch square baking pan, knocking out excess flour.
In a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water melt chocolate and butter, stirring occasionally, until smooth. Remove bowl from heat and whisk 1/2 cup sugar into chocolate mixture. Add yolks 1 at a time, whisking well after each addition, and whisk in flour, cocoa powder, vanilla, and salt.
In a bowl beat whites until they hold soft peaks and gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar, beating until whites just hold stiff peaks. Stir one fourth whites into chocolate mixture to lighten and fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Pour batter into baking pan, spreading evenly, and bake in middle of oven 40 to 45 minutes, or until a tester comes out with moist crumbs adhering. Cool cake in pan on a rack. (Cake will sink as it cools and top crust will crack.) Cake may be made 1 day ahead and kept, covered, at room temperature.
Cut cake into 9 squares (crust will shatter) and serve with ice cream, sauce, and whipped cream.

Sour Cream Coffee Cake 
1 cup firmly packed golden brown sugar
1 cup chopped walnuts
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease 10-inch (12-cup) tube pan; dust with flour, tapping out excess. Mix first 3 ingredients in small bowl; set aside.
Sift flour, baking powder and baking soda into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and 1 1/2 cups sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until combined after each addition. Mix in sour cream and vanilla. Add flour mixture and stir until blended. Spoon half of batter into prepared pan. Sprinkle half of brown sugar mixture over and swirl gently into batter, using small knife. Spoon remaining batter over. Sprinkle remaining brown sugar mixture over.
Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool cake in pan 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn out cake onto rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap and store at room temperature.)

Espresso-Hazelnut Cheesecake 
8 1/2 ounces butter biscuit cookies
1/2 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2 pounds cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup plus 2/3 cup chilled whipping cream
3 tablespoons instant espresso powder
2 tablespoons warm water
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked, coarsely chopped
Chocolate-covered espresso beans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter bottom and sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Wrap outside of pan with double layer of foil. Finely grind cookies, hazelnuts, sugar and cinnamon in processor. Add butter; process until moist clumps form. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and up sides of pan. Chill while preparing filling.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until smooth. Add sugar and beat until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until blended and scraping down sides of bowl after each addition. Beat in sour cream and 1/2 cup cream. Stir espresso powder and 2 tablespoons warm water in small bowl until powder dissolves. Add to filling and beat until blended. Beat in vanilla. Stir in nuts.
Pour filling into prepared pan. Place pan in large baking pan. Pour enough hot water into baking pan to come halfway up sides of springform pan. Bake cake until top is puffed and center is almost set, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Turn off oven; open door slightly. Let cake stand in oven with door ajar 1 hour. Remove pan from water; transfer to rack. Cool. Wrap in foil and chill overnight. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Keep chilled).
Run small knife around sides of pan to loosen cheesecake. Remove pan sides. Beat 2/3 cup cream in medium bowl until stiff peaks form. Spoon whipped cream into pastry bag fitted with large star tip; pipe around top edge of cake. Garnish with chocolate-covered espresso beans.

Chocolate Truffle Linzer Heart 
1 cup hazelnuts (about 5 ounces), toasted
2/3 cup sugar
1 1/4 cups sifted all purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1 ounce cream cheese, cut into small pieces, frozen
1 large egg, beaten to blend
1/2 ounce bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
1 egg white, beaten to blend
1/3 cup seedless raspberry jam
9 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
3 tablespoons whipping cream
1/3 cup plus 2 tablespoons seedless raspberry jam
1 1/2-pint basket raspberries
Lightly sweetened whipped cream

Position rack in lowest third of oven. Set cookie sheet on rack and preheat to 375 degrees F. Remove bottom from 10 1/2x9 1/2-inch heart-shape tart pan with 1-inch-high sides and removable bottom. Place bottom on parchment and trace heart shape.
Finely chop nuts with sugar in processor. Add flour, cinnamon, salt, cloves and ginger. Process just to blend. Add butter and cream cheese to processor. Process until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add 1 egg and chocolate. Process, using on/off turns, until large moist clumps form.
To form top crust, transfer 1 1/3 cups dough to pastry bag fitted with no. 4 (3/8-inch diameter) plain tip. Refrigerate remaining dough. Pipe 7 parallel diagonal lines about 3/4 inch apart across heart outline on parchment. Pipe border around edge of heart inside traced line, touching ends of diagonal lines (some dough may be left over in pastry bag). Freeze 10 minutes. Brush dough with some egg white. Slide parchment with heart onto heated cookie sheet and bake until crust is golden and edges are beginning to brown, about 15 minutes. Run long thin spatula between crust and parchment to loosen crust. Slide parchment with heart-shape crust onto rack and cool completely. Maintain oven temperature.
Return removable bottom to heart pan. Press remaining dough onto bottom and 3/4 inch up sides of pan, using plastic wrap if necessary to prevent dough from sticking to hands. Freeze until dough is firm, about 10 minutes. Brush lightly with egg white. Set pan on heated cookie sheet and bake until crust is golden brown and sides are beginning to pull away from pan, about 23 minutes. Spread bottom crust evenly with 1/3 cup jam. Bake 3 more minutes. Cool crust completely on rack.
Stir chocolate, butter and cream in heavy medium saucepan over medium-low heat until chocolate and butter are melted and mixture is smooth. Mix in 2 tablespoon jam. Cool slightly. Pour filling evenly into bottom crust; smooth top. Chill until filling is firm, about 30 minutes.
Spread remaining 1/3 cup jam over filling and outer edge of bottom crust. Carefully place cooled heart-shape top crust atop jam. Press gently to seal. Cover with foil and refrigerate overnight. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead.)
Remove torte from pan. Transfer to platter. Let stand at room temperature 45 minutes. Arrange raspberries in row in first space between crust lines. Spoon whipped cream into pastry bag fitted with small star tip. Pipe row of small rosettes in second space between crust lines. Continue, alternating rows of raspberries and whipped cream rosettes between crust lines.

Lemon Thins 
1/2 cup vegetable shortening at room temperature
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
1 1/2 tablespoons freshly grated lemon zest
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice (about 1 lemon)
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons double-acting baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
confectioners' sugar for dusting the cookies

In a bowl with an electric mixer cream together the shortening, the butter, and the sugar, add the vanilla, the lemon extract, the zest, and the juice, beating, and beat the mixture until it is smooth. Into the bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, the baking soda, and the salt and blend the dough well. On a piece of wax paper form the dough into a log 1 1/2 inches in diameter, using the paper as a guide. Chill the log, wrapped in wax paper and foil, for 2 hours. The dough may be made up to 3 months in advance and kept wrapped well and frozen. Cut the log into 1/8-inch slices with a sharp knife and bake the cookies 2 inches apart on ungreased baking sheets in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 8 to 10 minutes, or until the edges are just golden. Transfer the cookies immediately with a metal spatula to racks, let them cool, and sift the confectioners' sugar lightly over the lemon thins.

Cherry Linzertorte 
1 1/4 cups hazelnuts (about 5 ounces), toasted, husked, cooled
2 1/3 cups all purpose flour
3/4 cup sugar
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1 cup (2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
3 large egg yolks
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups cherry preserves (preferably imported; about 18 ounces)
Powdered sugar (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter tart pan with removable bottom. Combine nuts and 1/3 cup flour in processor; finely chop nuts. Transfer mixture to large bowl. Add remaining 2 cups flour and next 5 ingredients to bowl; whisk to blend. Add butter. Using electric mixer at low speed, blend ingredients until coarse meal forms (this will take several minutes). Add egg yolks and vanilla. Beat until moist clumps form. Gather dough into ball. Press 1 1/2 cups (packed) dough over bottom and up sides of prepared pan; spread preserves in dough. Roll remaining dough on sheet of parchment paper to 13x10-inch rectangle. Freeze rectangle 5 minutes to firm. Cut twelve 1/2-inch-wide strips lengthwise from rectangle. Arrange 6 strips across torte, spacing evenly. Arrange 6 more strips across torte in opposite direction, forming lattice. Seal ends of strips to dough edge, trimming excess. Reserve all dough scraps to make cookies, if desired.
Bake torte until crust is golden brown and preserves are bubbling thickly, about 40 minutes. Cool torte completely on rack. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover with foil; store at room temperature.)
Push bottom of pan up to free torte from pan. Sift powdered sugar over edge of torte, if desired, and serve.

Chocolate Raspberry Shortcakes 
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
3/4 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons cold unsalted butter, cut into bits
4 tablespoons heavy cream
1 1/2 cups raspberries
2 tablespoons granulated sugar, or to taste
1 tablespoon framboise, or to taste
1/3 cup well-chilled heavy cream
confectioners' sugar for sprinkling the shortcakes
mint sprigs for garnish if desired

Into a bowl sift together the cocoa powder, the flour, the sugar, the baking powder, the baking soda, and the salt, add the butter, and blend the mixture until it resembles coarse meal. Add the cream and stir the mixture with a fork until it forms a dough. Divide the dough in half, arrange each half in a mound on a lightly greased baking sheet, and bake the shortcakes in the middle of a preheated 425 degrees F. oven for 12 minutes, or until a tester inserted in the centers comes out with crumbs clinging to it. Transfer the shortcakes to a rack and let them cool.
In a bowl mash 3/4 cup of the raspberries with a fork, stir in 1 tablespoon of the granulated sugar and the framboise, stirring until the sugar is dissolved, and stir in the remaining 3/4 cup raspberries. In a small bowl with an electric mixer beat the cream until it holds soft peaks, add the remaining 1 tablespoon granulated sugar, and beat the cream until it holds stiff peaks. Carefully cut the shortcakes in half horizontally with a serrated knife and with a metal spatula transfer the bottom half of each to an individual plate. (The shortcakes are delicate and crumble easily.) Top each bottom half with half the raspberry mixture, divide the whipped cream between the 2 shortcakes, and with the spatula carefully top each serving with the top half of a shortcake. Sprinkle the shortcakes with the confectioners' sugar and garnish the plates with the mint sprigs.

Peach Melba Shortcakes 
Melted butter
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups cake flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup buttermilk
1 10-ounce package frozen sweetened raspberries in syrup, thawed
4 large peaches, peeled, pitted, sliced
1 1/2-pint basket raspberries
6 tablespoons sugar
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350#176;F. Brush six 4-inch-diameter tartlet pans with 1 1/8-inch-high sides and removable bottoms* with melted butter. Place pans on baking sheet. Using electric mixer, beat 1/2 cup butter and sugar in large bowl until light. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in vanilla. Sift flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt over mixture in bowl. Mix slightly, then add buttermilk; beat until combined. Divide batter among prepared pans (about scant 1/2 cup each).
Bake cakes until golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Transfer pans to rack; cool 5 minutes. Push up bottoms of pans to release cakes. Cool cakes on rack.
Puree thawed raspberries with their syrup in processor. Strain through sieve set over bowl, pressing on solids to extract liquid. (Cakes and berry sauce can be made 1 day ahead. Cover cakes and store at room temperature. Cover sauce and chill.)
Combine peaches, fresh raspberries and 4 tablespoons sugar in medium bowl; toss to blend. Let stand until juices form, about 30 minutes.
Beat cream, vanilla and remaining 2 tablespoons sugar in medium bowl until stiff peaks form.
Using serrated knife, cut cakes in half horizontally. Lightly sift powdered sugar over cake tops. Place 1 cake bottom on each of 6 plates. Top each with peach mixture, dividing equally. Spoon cream atop each. Cover with cake tops. Spoon raspberry sauce around cakes.
*Tartlet pans are available at many cake and candy supply stores or by mail from Jane's Cakes and Chocolates, 2331 Honolulu Avenue, Montrose, CA 91020; 818-957-2511 or 800-262-7630.

Gianduia Torte with Chocolate Glaze 
1 1/2 cups hazelnuts, toasted, husked
8 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter
7 large egg yolks
3/4 cup sugar
Chocolate Glaze

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 8-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pan with parchment paper. Butter parchment. Wrap outside of pan with foil. Finely grind hazelnuts in processor. Stir chocolate and butter in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until smooth. Cool chocolate mixture to room temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat yolks and sugar in large bowl until thick and pale yellow, about 5 minutes. Fold in cooled chocolate mixture, then hazelnuts. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Smooth top.
Bake until cake is set and appears dry but tester comes out with very moist crumbs attached, about 45 minutes. Transfer to rack. Lightly press down any raised edges of cake. Cool completely. Run small knife around sides of pan to loosen cake. Remove pan sides. Invert cake onto platter. Remove pan bottom. Peel off parchment. Slide waxed paper strips under cake to protect platter.
Using icing spatula, spread thin coating of Chocolate Glaze over top and sides of cake. Rewarm remaining glaze over low heat if necessary. Pour glaze in pool over center of cake; spread over top and sides. Remove waxed paper strips. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let stand 1 hour at room temperature before serving.)

Angel Food Cake with Chocolate Whipped Cream Icing 
1 cup powdered sugar
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 cup milk
Pinch of cream of tartar
2 cups chilled whipping cream
1 prepared angel food cake

Whisk powdered sugar, cocoa powder, milk and cream of tartar in large bowl until smooth. Cover and refrigerate until well chilled, about 1 hour. (Can be prepared 4 hours ahead.)
Using electric mixer, gradually beat cream into chocolate mixture. Continue beating until stiff peaks form. Place cake on platter. Spread top and sides of cake with icing. Slice into wedges and serve.

Banana Layer Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 1/4 cups cake flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon plus pinch of salt
1 cup mashed ripe bananas (about 2 large)
1/4 cup buttermilk
1 teaspoon plus 1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/3 cups sugar
2 large eggs
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
2 large bananas, peeled, sliced

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter three 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides; dust pans with flour. Combine cake flour, baking soda, baking powder and 1/2 teaspoon salt in medium bowl. Mix mashed bananas, buttermilk and 1 teaspoon vanilla in another medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat 1/2 cup butter and sugar in large bowl until blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating to blend after each addition. Add dry ingredients alternately with banana mixture in 3 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients and beating just until blended after each addition. Divide batter equally among prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tops are just beginning to color and tester inserted into center comes out with a few crumbs attached, about 20 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Using small knife, cut around cakes to loosen; turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely.
Beat cream cheese and remaining 1 cup butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in remaining 1 tablespoon vanilla and pinch of salt. Gradually beat in powdered sugar. Cover and refrigerate frosting until firm enough to spread, about 15 minutes.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 1/2 cup frosting over top. Place half of sliced bananas evenly over frosting, leaving 1/4-inch border at edge. Place second cake layer on work surface. Spread 1/4 cup frosting over top. Place cake layer, frosting side down, atop bananas. Spread 1/2 cup frosting over top. Place remaining half of sliced bananas evenly over frosting, leaving 1/4-inch border at edge. Place third cake layer on work surface. Spread 1/4 cup frosting over top. Place cake layer, frosting side down, atop bananas. Spread remaining frosting over sides and top of cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill. Let stand 1 hour at room temperature before serving.)

Wellesley Fudge Cupcakes 
1 ounce unsweetened chocolate, chopped fine
3 tablespoons hot water
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 large egg yolk
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons milk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1 ounce unsweetened chocolate, chopped fine
1/2 tablespoon unsalted butter
1/2 cup confectioners' sugar
2 teaspoons milk plus additional to thin the frosting
1/2 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. In a metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water melt the chocolate with the water, stirring, until the mixture is smooth and remove the bowl from the heat. In a bowl whisk the butter with the brown sugar until the mixture is blended well and whisk in the yolk and the chocolate mixture. Onto a sheet of wax paper sift together the flour, the baking powder, and the salt and add the flour mixture to the chocolate mixture in batches alternately with the milk, stirring well after each addition. Stir in the vanilla, divide the batter among 6 paper-lined 1/2-cup muffin tins, and bake the cupcakes in the middle of the oven for 18 to 20 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Transfer the cupcakes to a rack and let them cool.
In a metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water melt the chocolate with the butter, stirring, until the mixture is smooth and remove the bowl from the heat. Stir in the confectioners' sugar, 2 teaspoons of the milk, and the vanilla and blend the frosting well (the frosting will thicken as it stands). When the cupcakes are cool, thin the frosting to the desired consistency with the additional milk, stirring in the milk drop by drop.
Spread each cupcake with some of the frosting.

Apple Spice Cake with Walnuts and Currants 
1 egg white
1 cup large walnut pieces
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 tablespoon plus 3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 medium Granny Smith apples, peeled, cored, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
2 medium Jonagold apples, peeled, cored, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 large egg
1 cup toasted walnuts, chopped
1 cup dried currants
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup (packed) powdered sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 generous teaspoon dried currants

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line large baking sheet with foil. Beat egg white in medium bowl until foamy. Mix in remaining ingredients. Spread walnuts in single layer on prepared sheet. Bake until walnuts are golden, about 10 minutes. Cool on baking sheet. Transfer walnuts to work surface and chop coarsely.
Melt 1 tablespoon butter in heavy large saucepan over medium-low heat. Add all apples; cover and simmer until apples are juicy and almost tender, stirring occasionally, about 18 minutes. Uncover and simmer until almost all juices evaporate, about 6 minutes. Using potato masher, mash apples in pan. Cool.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Whisk flour and next 5 ingredients in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat remaining 3/4 cup butter and sugar in large bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in egg. Beat in half of flour mixture on low speed, then all of applesauce, then remaining flour mixture. Mix in 1 cup toasted walnuts and currants.
Divide batter between pans; smooth tops. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 5 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add powdered sugar and vanilla and beat to blend.
Place 1 cake layer on plate; spread 1/2 cup icing over top. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining icing over top and sides of cake. Arrange cinnamon-sugar walnuts in ring 1/2 inch in from edge of cake. Sprinkle walnuts with currants. Chill cake until icing sets, about 30 minutes. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and keep chilled. Bring to room temperature before serving.)

Pecan Shortbread Cookies 
1/2 cuppecans, toasted
1/4 cup sugar
1 cup unbleached all purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1 tablespoon whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
18 (about) pecan halves

Finely grind toasted pecans and sugar in processor. Blend in flour, baking soda, and salt. Add butter; cut in using on/off turns until coarse meal forms. Add cream and vanilla. Process using on/off turns until moist clumps form. Gather dough into ball; flatten into disk. Place sheet of waxed paper on work surface. Sprinkle waxed paper lightly with flour. Place dough disk in center of waxed paper and top with second sheet. Roll out dough to 1/4- to 3/8-inch thickness. Using 2-inch fluted cookie cutter, cut out cookies. Transfer to large baking sheet. Gather scraps, reroll, and cut out additional cookies. Press 1 pecan half into center of each cookie. Refrigerate cookies 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Bake cookies until lightly browned, about 20 minutes. Cool on rack. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Banana Upside-Down Cake 
1 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large ripe bananas, sliced
1 1/2 cups cake flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup mashed ripe bananas (about 2)
1/2 cup buttermilk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups sugar
1/3 cup vegetable shortening
2 eggs

Position rack in lowest third of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Using electric mixer, cream brown sugar and butter in medium bowl until well mixed. Spread brown sugar mixture over bottom of 9-inch square baking dish with 2-inch high sides. Arrange banana slices atop brown sugar mixture, covering completely. Set cake pan aside.
Combine flour, baking soda, baking powder and salt in small bowl. Mix mashed bananas, buttermilk and vanilla in another small bowl. Using electric mixer, cream 1 1/4 cups sugar and shortening until fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add dry ingredients alternatively with buttermilk mixture, mixing until just combined. Pour batter over bananas in pan. Bake until cake pulls away from sides of pan and tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 1 hour 5 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool slightly. Turn cake out onto plate. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Apple-Almond Cheesecake 
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
1 cup sliced almonds, toasted
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
2 tablespoons golden brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 7-ounce packages almond paste, crumbled
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
6 tablespoons sugar
4 large eggs
4 large Jonagold apples (about 2 1/2 pounds), peeled, cored, cut into 1/3-inch-thick slices
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
4 tablespoons unsalted butter
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 10-inch-diameter springform pan. Wrap bottom with 2 layers of heavy-duty foil. Mix all ingredients in medium bowl to blend, crumbling almonds slightly. Press mixture onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of pan. Bake until set, about 7 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Combine almond paste, cream cheese, and sugar in processor; blend until smooth, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl, about 2 minutes. Mix in eggs until just blended. Pour filling into crust. Bake 15 minutes. Reduce heat to 325 degrees F and bake until center is set and top appears dry, about 45 minutes longer. Cool. Wrap in plastic and refrigerate overnight. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
Toss apple slices with lemon juice in large bowl. Melt 3 tablespoons butter in heavy large skillet over high heat. Add apples and sauté until golden and tender, stirring frequently, about 9 minutes. Sprinkle with brown sugar and cinnamon. Stir to coat. Add remaining 1 tablespoon butter. Stir until coated and glazed. Cool slightly.
Run small sharp knife around edge of pan to loosen cheesecake. Release pan sides. Arrange apples (warm or room temperature) in concentric circles atop cheesecake. Brush apples with any juices left in skillet. Cut into wedges and serve.

Old-Fashioned Sugar Cookies 
2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup solid vegetable shortening
3/4 cup sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon grated orange peel
3 tablespoons milk
Additional sugar

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Sift 2 cups flour, 1/2 teaspoon baking powder, 1/2 teaspoon baking soda and 1/4 teaspoon salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, cream 1/2 cup shortening and 3/4 cup sugar in large bowl. Beat in 1 egg, 1 teaspoon vanilla and 1 teaspoon orange peel. Mix in dry ingredients alternately with milk, beginning and ending with dry ingredients.
Lightly grease 2 large cookie sheets. Roll dough out on lightly floured surface to 1/8-inch thickness. Cut 3-inch-diameter rounds using cookie or biscuit cutter. Transfer dough rounds to prepared cookie sheets. Gather and reroll scraps. Cut additional cookies. Sprinkle cookies with sugar. Bake cookies until golden brown on edges, about 14 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Chestnut Cheesecake 
1 cup whole unblanched almonds (about 5 ounces)
2 tablespoons sugar
1/8 teaspoon almond extract
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 10-jar chestnuts (for chestnut pieces) in vanilla syrup (marrons glacés)
2 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/3 sup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 large eggs
1 cup chilled whipping cream

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Blend whole unblanched almonds, sugar and almond extract in processor until almonds are coarsely chopped. Add unsalted butter and process until almonds are finely chopped. Press almond mixture firmly onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of 8-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 1/2-inch-high sides. Bake crust until light brown, about 13 minutes. Transfer crust in pan to rack and cool. Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F.
Drain chestnuts thoroughly. Cut enough chestnuts into 1/4- to 1/2-inch pieces to measure 1 cup (reserve remaining chestnuts for topping). Using electric mixer, beat room temperature cream cheese, sugar and vanilla extract in medium bowl until very smooth. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time. Cover bottom of crust with 1 cup chestnuts pieces. Spoon cream cheese mixture over. Place springform pan on baking sheet.
Bake cheesecake on baking sheet until center is just set, about 45 minutes. Cool cheesecake 30 minutes. Chill uncovered until cold, about 3 hours, the cover. (Cheesecake can be made 1 day ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
Cut around sides of pan to loosen cheesecake; release pan sides. Beat whipping cream in medium bowl until firm peaks form. Spoon cream into pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Pipe rosettes of cream around to edge of cake. Place 1 reserved chestnut piece on each rosette.

Strawberry and Apricot Linzertorte Hearts 
1 1/2 cups blanched almonds, toasted and cooled
3 tablespoons granulated sugar
1 cup confectioners' sugar
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup cornstarch
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon freshly grated lemon zest
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 1/4 sticks (1 cup plus 2 tablespoons) cold unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 large whole egg
1 large egg yolk
2/3 cup apricot jam, heated, strained, and cooled
2/3 cup strawberry jam, heated, strained, and cooled

In a food processor pulse almonds with granulated sugar until chopped fine. Add confectioners' sugar, flour, cornstarch, cinnamon, zest, and salt and pulse until combined well. Add butter and pulse until combined. Add whole egg and yolk and pulse until dough just holds together. Divide dough into fourths and form into disks (dough will be sticky). Chill disks, wrapped in plastic wrap, at least 2 hours and up to 3 days.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees  F.
Roll out 1 dough disk (keeping remaining disks chilled) between sheets of wax paper into a 1/4-inch-thick round (10 to 11 inches in diameter) and freeze between wax paper on a tray until very firm, about 10 minutes. Roll out and freeze remaining 3 dough disks in same manner.
Remove top sheet of paper from 1 round and with a 3 1/2-inch heart-shaped cutter cut out hearts, chilling scraps. (If dough becomes too soft to work with at any time, freeze on wax paper until very firm.) With a 1-inch heart-shaped cutter cut and lift out centers (making 2 additional decorative heart cutouts in some cookies) from half of large hearts.
Arrange whole hearts and cut-out hearts 1/2 inch apart on baking sheets and bake in batches in middle of oven 12 to 15 minutes, or until edges are pale golden. Cool cookies on baking sheets 5 minutes. (Cookies will continue to firm up as they cool.) With a spatula carefully transfer cookies to racks to cool completely. Make more cookies with remaining 3 dough rounds and scraps in same manner.
On a work surface arrange whole hearts, bottoms down. Drop 1 teaspoon of either jam on each cookie, spreading almost to edges, and top with cut-out hearts. Spoon some remaining jam into centers. Cookies may be made 4 days ahead and chilled between layers of wax paper in an airtight container. Bring cookies to room temperature before serving.

Ginger-Orange Stars 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/4 cup robust-flavored (dark) molasses
1 large egg yolk
1 tablespoon grated orange peel
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups (or more) powdered sugar
5 teaspoons water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract

Sift first 7 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add sugar and beat until well blended. Beat in molasses, egg yolk, orange peel, and vanilla. Add flour mixture and beat just until blended. Gather dough into ball. Divide into 4 pieces. Flatten each into disk. Wrap each in plastic and chill until cold and firm, at least 4 hours.
Position racks in top third and bottom third of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Roll out 1 piece of dough on lightly floured surface to 1/4-inch thickness. Using 2 1/2- to 3-inch star-shaped cutter, cut out cookies. Transfer cookies to prepared sheets, spacing 1/2 inch apart (cookies spread very little). Gather scraps and reroll dough, cutting out more cookies. Bake cookies 5 minutes. Reverse baking sheets; bake until cookies are puffed and look slightly darker around edges, about 5 minutes longer. Cool cookies on sheets 2 minutes. Using thin metal spatula, transfer cookies to racks; cool. Repeat with remaining dough pieces.
Sift 1 1/2 cups sugar into medium bowl. Add 5 teaspoons water and vanilla; whisk until smooth. Whisk in more sugar by tablespoonfuls, if necessary, until icing falls thickly off whisk. Spoon icing into pastry bag fitted with 1/16-inch plain round tip or resealable plastic bag (cut tip off bag). Pipe icing onto cookies. Let stand until icing is hard, at least 3 hours. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight between sheets of waxed paper.)

Chocolate- and Almond-Dipped Sandwich Cookies 
1/4 cup slivered almonds
1 cup sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 large egg yolk
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 cup whipping cream
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped garnish
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 1/4 cups slivered almonds (about 5 ounces), toasted, chopped

Place slivered almonds in processor and add 1/4 cup sugar. Grind almonds finely. Using electric mixer, beat butter and remaining 3/4 cup sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in egg yolk, vanilla extract, and 1/4 teaspoon salt. Add ground-nut mixture and flour and beat until moist clumps form. Gather dough into 2 balls; flatten each ball into disk. Wrap in plastic and refrigerate at least 1 hour and up to 2 days.
Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Roll out half of dough between sheets of waxed paper or parchment paper to scant 1/4-inch thickness, sprinkling dough lightly with flour as needed to keep from sticking and occasionally peeling off top paper to remove wrinkles. Peel off top sheet. Using 2 1/2x1 1/2-inch oval cookie cutter (or cardboard template), cut out cookies. If dough is soft, slide rimless baking sheet under paper and chill 10 minutes to firm. Transfer cookies to prepared sheets, spacing 1/2 inch apart. Gather scraps and reroll dough, cutting out more cookies. Chill cookies on sheets 15 minutes before baking.
Position racks in top third and bottom third of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. Bake cookies 5 minutes. Reverse sheets and bake until cookies begin to color, about 6 minutes. Cool cookies on sheets 5 minutes. Transfer to racks; cool completely. Repeat with remaining dough.
Bring cream to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Remove from heat; add chocolate and whisk until melted and smooth. Let cool until thick but still spreadable, about 2 hours.
Place half of cookies, bottom side up, on work surface. Spoon ganache filling into pastry bag fitted with 1/4-inch plain tip. Leaving 1/4-inch plain border, pipe (or spread) ganache on cookies. Top each with second cookie, bottom side down, pressing to adhere.
Stir chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water until smooth. Place almonds in small bowl. Dip end of 1 cookie in chocolate, then in almonds. Transfer to sheet of foil. Repeat with remaining cookies. Let stand until garnish is set. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight in refrigerator in single layers between sheets of waxed paper.

Frozen Strawberry-Banana Cake with Strawberry Sauce 
1 12-ounce pound cake
1 cup strawberry preserves
1/4 cup strawberry liqueur or orange juice
2 pints strawberry sorbet, softened
2 pints banana-strawberry frozen yogurt, softened
1 10-ounce package frozen sliced strawberries in syrup, thawed
3 large ripe bananas, peeled, cut diagonally into 1/4-inch-thick slices
Sliced fresh strawberries

Cut cake into 1/4-inch-thick slices. Arrange enough slices in bottom of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides to just cover bottom, fitting tightly. Cook preserves and liqueur in heavy small saucepan over medium heat until reduced to 2/3 cup, stirring frequently, about 14 minutes. Spread half of preserves mixture over cake in pan. Freeze 10 minutes. Spoon sorbet over cake in pan; smooth top. Arrange more cake slices over to just cover sorbet. Spread remaining preserves mixture over cake. Freeze 10 minutes.
Spoon frozen yogurt over cake; smooth top. Cover and freeze overnight. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead.)
Puree thawed berries in processor. Cover and refrigerate until cold. (Sauce can be prepared 2 days ahead.)
Release pan sides from cake. Place banana slices around cake edge. Mound berries in center. Serve cake with sauce.

Peanut Butter Cookie Mousse Cake 
1 Box Peanut Butter Sandwich Girl Scout cookies
1 1/2 cups cream cheese
1 1/2 cups peanut butter
1 1/2 cups sifted powdered sugar
1 cup heavy cream
1 12 ounce bag Hershey semi-sweet chocolate chips
1 cup heavy cream

Crush cookies in food processor and set aside.
Soften cream cheese, add peanut butter, and mix well. Add powdered sugar. Whip cream until soft peaks form. Fold whipped cream into peanut mixture and set aside.
Place chocolate chips in bowl and set aside. Heat heavy cream until it starts to boil. Pour over chips and stir.
Use an 8-inch springform pan. As a first layer, spread half of the cookie crumbs on bottom, then pour on a thin layer (about 1/3) of ganache, enough just to hold cookie crumbs. Place half of the peanut butter mousse in the pan and spread over the ganache. Place the remaining cookie crumbs on top of the mousse. Place a third of the chocolate on top of the mousse. Place remaining mousse in pan, and finish cake with remaining ganache. Place in freezer for one hour. Remove from freezer, take out of pan, and serve.

Chocolate-Chocolate Chip Shortbread Cookies 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups semisweet chocolate chips, frozen 1 hour
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, diced, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 large egg yolk
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 teaspoon almond extract
1 cup walnuts, coarsely chopped

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Whisk flour, cocoa, and salt in small bowl to blend. Coarsely chop 1 1/2 cups chocolate chips in processor. With machine running, add butter, then 1/2 cup sugar through feed tube. Add egg yolk and both extracts and process to blend. Using on/off turns, mix in walnuts, scraping down sides of bowl occasionally. Add flour mixture and process just until dough comes together, about 1 minute. Transfer dough to large bowl. Using hands, mix in remaining 1/2 cup chocolate chips.
Using 1 tablespoon dough for each, shape dough into 1 1/4-inch-diameter balls. Press each dough ball to 1/2-inch thickness; dip 1 side into remaining 1/2 cup sugar to coat. Arrange cookies, sugar side up, on 2 ungreased baking sheets. Bake cookies until set and almost firm to touch, about 18 minutes; cool on racks.

Mango Cheesecake 
1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs
1/2 cup sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
3 large very ripe mangoes (each about 13 ounces), peeled, pitted, coarsely chopped
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
4 large eggs
Sliced peeled pitted mangoes

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Stir cracker crumbs and sugar in medium bowl to blend. Add melted butter and stir until evenly moistened. Press crumb mixture firmly onto bottom (not sides) of prepared pan. Bake until crust is set, about 12 minutes. Cool completely. Maintain oven temperature.
Puree mangoes in processor until smooth. Set aside 2 cups mango puree (reserve any remaining puree for another use). Beat cream cheese, sugar, and vanilla in large bowl until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add 2 cups mango puree and beat until well blended. Pour filling over crust in pan.
Bake cake until set and puffed and golden around edges (center may move very slightly when pan is gently shaken), about 1 hour 25 minutes. Cool cake 1 hour. Refrigerate uncovered overnight. Run small knife between cake and sides of pan to loosen. Remove pan sides. Transfer cake to platter. Cut into wedges and serve with sliced mangoes.

Walnut Gâteau Breton 
1/2 cup/60g walnuts, lightly toasted
1 1/4 cups/250g sugar
7 large egg yolks
16 tablespoons/250g salted butter, melted
2 cups/265g unbleached, all-purpose flour

1. Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F/150 degrees C/gas 3/4. Butter and lightly flour a 9-inch/23-cm cake pan.
2. Place the walnuts and 2 tablespoons of the sugar in the bowl of a food processor and grind so that most of the walnuts are finely ground but not anywhere near a paste.
3. In a large bowl, whisk together 6 of the egg yolks and the remaining 1 cup 2 tablespoons sugar until the mixture is blended, just a few minutes; there is no need to use an electric mixer here. It will be thick and yellow but shouldn't form a ribbon. Slowly whisk in the walnuts and sugar, then the butter. Sift the flour over the mixture and whisk it in just until the mixture is homogeneous. Don't overmix the batter or the cake will be tough.
4. Whisk together the remaining egg yolk and 2 teaspoons water, to make an egg glaze.
5. Turn the batter, which will be quite stiff, into the prepared pan and smooth it out. Lightly but thoroughly paint it with the egg glaze. Using the back of the tines of a fork, deeply mark a crisscross pattern in the top of the cake, going three times across it in one direction, then three in another. (The marks in the cake will fade, leaving just their trace on the top of the cake.)
6. Bake in the center of the oven until the cake is deep golden on the top and springs back slowly but surely when it is touched, about 1 hour and 15 minutes. Using a knife or cake tester isn't recommended as it always comes out looking slightly damp because of the amount of butter in the recipe.
7. Remove from the oven and transfer the cake to a wire rack, and let it cool for about 10 minutes before turning out of the cake pan. Let it cool thoroughly before serving.

Eccles Cakes 
3/4 cup dried currants
1/3 cup golden raisins
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/4 cup chopped candied orange peel
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1 sheet frozen puff pastry (half of 17.3-ounce package), thawed
1 egg, beaten to blend (for glaze)
2 teaspoons sugar

Mix first 8 ingredients in medium bowl until well blended. (Filling can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Bring to room temperature before continuing.)
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Roll out puff pastry on lightly floured surface to 1/8-inch thickness. Cut out four 6-inch-diameter rounds. Place filling on half of each round, dividing equally. Brush edges of rounds with beaten egg. Fold pastry over filling, creating semicircle and enclosing filling completely. Press edges firmly to seal. Transfer to heavy large baking sheet. Brush with beaten egg. Sprinkle with sugar.
Bake pastries until deep golden brown, about 20 minutes. Transfer baking sheet to rack and cool pastries 5 minutes. Using metal spatula, carefully remove pastries from baking sheet. Cool.

Anarchy Cake 
1 1/2 cups fruit (or 4 ounces of chopped bittersweet chocolate), sliced if using peaches, apricots, or plums (neatness does not count); if using cherries, pit them
3/4 cup of cake or pastry flour (all-purpose flour works in a pinch)
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
Pinch of salt
1 egg
1/2 cup superfine sugar, plus an additional 2 tablespoons
1/4 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest
1/4 cup extra-virgin olive oil
1/4 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon balsamic vinegar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Line bottom of a 10-inch-diameter springform pan with parchment paper, brush with oil, and lightly flour.
Gently toss prepared fruit with 1 tablespoon of sugar and set aside. (If using chocolate, do not toss it with the sugar, just put aside until needed.)
Combine flour, baking powder, and salt in a bowl and set aside.
Using an electric mixer, beat the egg with the 1/2 cup of superfine sugar and lemon zest until light, fluffy, and pale in color. This could take as long as 5 minutes.
Add the olive oil, then the milk and balsamic vinegar, beating until fully combined.
Using a rubber spatula, fold in the flour mixture.
Pour batter into the prepared springform pan and drop the sliced fruit over the top. Sprinkle with a tablespoon of sugar.
Bake for 50 minutes, until the top is a beautiful golden brown. A knife blade inserted into the cake’s center should come out clean.

Individual Ginger Cakes with Apricot Sticky Sauce 
2/3 cup dried apricots, thinly sliced
3 tablespoons chopped crystallized ginger
1 cup sugar
3 tablespoons water
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
1 tablespoon salted butter
2/3 cup whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
4 teaspoons ground ginger
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons ground allspice
1 cup hot water
1 tablespoon instant espresso powder
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) salted butter, room temperature
1 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons finely grated peeled fresh ginger
2 teaspoons sugar

Combine apricots and ginger in small bowl. Pour enough boiling water over just to cover; let soften 10 minutes. Drain; pat dry with paper towels.
Combine sugar, 3 tablespoons water, and corn syrup in heavy medium skillet. Stir over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat; boil until syrup is deep amber color, brushing down sides with wet pastry brush and swirling pan occasionally, about 10 minutes. Remove from heat. Mix in butter, apricots, and ginger. Add cream and vanilla. Stir over low heat until caramel bits dissolve and sauce is smooth. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; chill. Rewarm over low heat before serving.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 9 mini-Bundt molds with nonstick spray; generously butter same molds. Sift flour, ground ginger, baking soda, and allspice into medium bowl. Combine 1 cup hot water and espresso powder in small bowl and stir to dissolve. Using electric mixer, beat brown sugar and butter in large bowl until blended. Beat in molasses, then eggs and fresh ginger. Beat in flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with espresso mixture in 2 additions. Divide among 9 prepared molds. Sprinkle with 2 teaspoons sugar. Bake cakes until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool cakes in pans 10 minutes; turn out onto baking sheet. (Can be made 6 hours ahead; let stand at room temperature. Rewarm in 350 degrees F oven 8 minutes.) Serve ginger cakes warm with warm apricot sauce.

Cherry and Almond Clafoutis 
1 16-ounce package frozen dark sweet cherries, thawed, drained
2 tablespoons plus 1/2 cup sugar
1 tablespoon cornstarch
4 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) butter
3/4 cup whole milk
1/3 cup almonds, toasted, cooled
1/4 cup all purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon salt
Pistachio or vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Generously butter six 1-cup custard cups. Mix cherries, 2 tablespoons sugar, and cornstarch in large bowl. Divide among prepared cups.
Whisk eggs, vanilla, and remaining 1/2 cup sugar in medium bowl until well blended. Cook butter in heavy small saucepan over medium-low heat until butter begins to brown, about 3 minutes. Add butter to egg mixture and whisk to blend. Whisk in milk. Finely grind almonds, flour, and salt in processor. Stir nut mixture into custard. Pour custard over cherries, dividing equally.
Bake clafoutis until set in center, about 35 minutes. Run knife around sides of clafoutis to loosen. Slide out onto plates. Serve clafoutis warm or at room temperature with ice cream.

Apricot Coffee Cake 
14 tablespoons (1 3/4 sticks) unsalted butter, at cool room temperature
1 cup granulated sugar
4 large eggs, at room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/3 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
Pinch of salt
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
Grated zest of 1/2 lemon
1 15 3/4-ounce can apricots, well drained
Confectioners' sugar, for garnish

1. Position a rack in the center of the oven and heat to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter an 11x8-inch glass baking dish.
2. Beat the butter in a medium bowl with a handheld electric mixer on high speed until smooth, about 1 minute. Add the sugar and beat until the mixture is light in color and texture, about 2 minutes. Beat in the eggs, one at a time, beating well after each addition (don't be concerned if the mixture looks slightly curdled). Beat in the vanilla. Sift the flour, baking powder, and salt together and stir into the batter, then stir in the lemon juice and zest.
3. Spread evenly in the pan. Arrange the apricots over the batter, cutting them into halves or quarters if necessary to give the cake a uniform appearance. (There are often apricots of different sizes in the same can.) Bake until the cake is golden brown and a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, 25 to 30 minutes. Transfer to a wire rack and cool completely before serving.
4. To serve, sift confectioners' sugar over the cake and cut into squares.
The cake can be made up to 1 day ahead, covered with plastic wrap, and served at room temperature.

Buttermilk Cake with Blackberries and Beaumes-de-Venise 
2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 large eggs
1 cup well-shaken buttermilk
3/4 cup Beaumes-de-Venise or other white dessert wine
4 tablespoons sugar
1 (3- by 1-inch) strip fresh orange zest
1/3 cup seedless blackberry preserves or 1/2 cup blackberry preserves with seeds, strained
4 cups fresh blackberries (1 1/2 lb)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Line bottom of a buttered 9- by 2-inch round cake pan with a round of wax paper, then butter paper.
Sift together flour, baking powder and soda, and salt. Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy, then beat in vanilla. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then, with mixer at low speed, beat in all of buttermilk until just combined. Add flour mixture in 3 batches, mixing after each addition until just combined.
Spoon batter into cake pan, smoothing top, and bake in middle of oven until golden and a tester comes out clean, 40 to 50 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes, then run a thin sharp knife around edge of cake to loosen. Invert onto rack, then slide cake onto a cake plate.
Bring wine, 3 tablespoons sugar, and zest to a boil in a small heavy saucepan, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Boil until syrup is reduced to about 2/3 cup, 1 to 2 minutes. Discard zest.
Reserve 2 tablespoons syrup and pour remainder slowly and evenly over cake (cake will absorb syrup).
Stir together reserved syrup, preserves, and remaining tablespoon sugar in small saucepan and simmer, stirring occasionally, until thickened slightly, about 1 minute (it should be the consistency of a thick syrup). Put blackberries in a large bowl, then pour preserves mixture over berries. Gently stir berries with a rubber spatula to coat, then pour over cake, mounding blackberries on top.
Serve warm or at room temperature.

Date Squares 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon baking soda dissolved in 1/4 cup hot water
1 cup walnuts (4 oz), finely chopped
1 lb dried pitted dates, finely chopped with an oiled knife (2 cups)
2 cups confectioners sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Grease a 13- by 9- by 2-inch metal baking pan, then line with foil, leaving a 2-inch overhang on 2 opposite sides, and butter foil.
Whisk together flour, salt, and spices. Beat together butter and granulated sugar in a bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes in a standing mixer (preferably fitted with paddle attachment) or 6 minutes with a handheld. Reduce speed to low and add eggs 1 at a time, mixing well after each addition. Add baking soda mixture and mix until combined. Add flour mixture, walnuts, and dates and mix until just combined.
Spread batter evenly in baking pan and bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, 50 minutes to 1 hour. Cool in pan on a rack 15 minutes. Carefully lift date mixture out of pan using foil overhang and transfer to a cutting board. Cut into 1-inch squares and peel from foil.
Toss warm squares a few at a time in confectioners sugar, then transfer to a rack to cool completely. Sprinkle with more confectioners sugar just before serving.

Raspberry Swirl Cookies 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup raspberry jam
1/2 cup sweetened flaked coconut
1/4 cup chopped toasted walnuts

Sift flour, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth. Add sugar and beat until blended. Beat in egg and vanilla. Add flour mixture and beat until moist clumps form. Gather dough into ball. Flatten and shape into rectangle. Wrap in plastic and refrigerate until cold, at least 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep refrigerated. Soften dough slightly before rolling out.)
Roll out dough on lightly floured surface to 13x10-inch rectangle (about 1/4 inch thick). Mix jam and coconut in small bowl to blend. Spread over dough, leaving 1/2-inch plain border. Sprinkle nuts evenly over jam mixture. Starting at one long side, roll up dough jellyroll style into 13x2 1/2-inch log. Wrap in plastic and chill 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Unwrap cookie log; cut 1/2 inch off each end and discard. Cut remaining log crosswise into 1/2-inch-thick rounds. Arrange rounds, cut side down, on prepared sheets, spacing 1 inch apart; reshape into neat rounds, if desired. Bake cookies until edges and bottom are golden, about 20 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool.

Fruit and Cookie-Crust Pizza 
1 18-ounce roll refrigerated sugar-cookie dough
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1 7-ounce jar marshmallow creme
Sliced fruit (such as hulled strawberries, peeled kiwis, peeled bananas, peeled cored pineapple), plus whole raspberries
Purchased caramel sauce, warmed

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 12-inch-diameter pizza pan. Cut cookie-dough roll crosswise into 1/3-inch-thick slices; arrange on prepared pan. Using wet fingertips, press dough evenly into pan to form pizza crust.
Bake crust until deep golden brown, about 15 minutes. Transfer to rack. Using edge of metal spatula, press in crust edges to form even round. Cool completely.
Beat cream cheese in medium bowl until smooth. Beat in marshmallow creme. Spread filling evenly over crust, leaving 1/2-inch plain border. (Crust with filling can be made 45 minutes ahead. Let stand at room temperature.) Top with fruit as desired; drizzle with warm caramel sauce and serve.

Cuban Opera Cake 
4 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup crème de cacao
1/2 cup freshly brewed coffee, lukewarm
8 ounces imported milk chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup sugar
4 large egg yolks
2 tablespoons water
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup half and half
4 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon instant espresso powder or coffee powder
4 large egg yolks
1 teaspoon unflavored gelatin softened in 1 tablespoon water 10 minutes
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup water
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides; line bottoms with parchment paper rounds. Dust pans with flour; tap out excess. Melt chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring until melted and smooth. Remove from over water. Cool to lukewarm. Whisk flour, baking soda, and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, butter, and vanilla in large bowl to blend. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition and stopping occasionally to scrape down sides of bowl. Gradually beat in lukewarm melted chocolate. Beat in dry ingredients in 3 additions alternately with sour cream in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Gradually beat in crème de cacao and coffee. Divide batter evenly between prepared pans; smooth tops.
Bake cakes until toothpick inserted into centers comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Invert cakes onto 9-inch cardboard rounds or removable tart pan bottoms; cool cakes completely on racks.
Melt milk chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring until smooth. Remove from over water. Whisk sugar, egg yolks, 2 tablespoons water, and corn syrup in medium metal bowl to blend. Add 1/4 cup butter. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water; whisk constantly until mixture reaches 170 degrees F, about 4 minutes. Remove bowl from over water. Using electric mixer, beat until completely cool and thick, about 6 minutes. Gradually beat in 1/2 cup butter, about 1 tablespoon at a time, fully incorporating each addition and stopping occasionally to scrape down sides of bowl. Beat in lukewarm melted chocolate.
Bring half and half, 2 tablespoons sugar, and espresso powder to simmer in small saucepan over medium-high heat. Whisk egg yolks and remaining 2 tablespoons sugar in medium bowl to blend. Gradually whisk hot half and half mixture into yolk mixture. Return mixture to saucepan and stir constantly over medium heat until thermometer registers 160 degrees F, about 2 minutes. Pour into large bowl. Add softened gelatin; stir until dissolved. Using electric mixer, beat until cool, about 10 minutes. Using clean dry beaters, beat cream and vanilla in medium bowl until stiff peaks form. Fold whipped cream into coffee mixture.
Cut each cake layer horizontally in half. Place 1 cake layer in bottom of 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Cover with 3/4 cup buttercream. Place second cake layer atop buttercream; cover with mousse. Top with third cake layer. Refrigerate 1 hour to allow mousse to set. Spread 3/4 cup buttercream over third cake layer. Top with fourth cake layer (cake will rise above rim of pan). Cover and refrigerate at least 4 hours or overnight.
Stir sugar and 1 cup water in medium saucepan over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to high; bring to boil. Whisk in cocoa; remove from heat. Add chocolate; whisk until smooth. Let stand until cool but still pourable, about 2 hours.
Run knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Scrape excess mousse from sides of cake. Transfer cake on springform pan bottom to rack set over baking sheet. Pour glaze over cake, allowing glaze to drip down edges onto baking sheet (use spatula to spread glaze over any uncovered spots). Refrigerate at least 2 hours to allow glaze to set. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep refrigerated. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.)

Chocolate-Espresso Lava Cakes with Espresso Whipped Cream 
1 cup all purpose flour
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
6 teaspoons instant espresso powder or instant coffee powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 cup (2 sticks) salted butter, melted
1 cup sugar
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
4 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
12 tablespoons semisweet chocolate chips (about 4 1/2 ounces)
1 cup chilled whipping cream
3 tablespoons powdered sugar

Sift flour, cocoa powder, 5 teaspoons espresso powder, and baking powder into medium bowl. Place butter in large bowl; add both sugars and whisk until well blended. Whisk in eggs 1 at a time, then vanilla and almond extracts. Whisk in dry ingredients. Divide batter among six 1-cup ovenproof coffee mugs (about 2/3 cup in each). Top each with 2 tablespoons chocolate chips. Gently press chips into batter. Cover and refrigerate mugs at least 1 hour and up to 1 day.
Combine cream, powdered sugar and remaining 1 teaspoon espresso powder in medium bowl; whisk until peaks form. Chill up to 1 hour.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Let mugs with batter stand at room temperature 5 minutes. Bake uncovered until cakes are puffed and crusty and tester inserted into center comes out with thick batter attached, about 30 minutes. Cool cakes 5 minutes. Top hot cakes with espresso whipped cream and serve.

Cappuccino-Fudge Cheesecake 
1 9-ounce box chocolate wafer cookies
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
1/2 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/8 teaspoon ground nutmeg
7 tablespoons hot melted unsalted butter
1 1/2 cups whipping cream
20 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/4 cup Kahlúa or other coffee-flavored liqueur
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/3 cups sugar
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
2 tablespoons dark rum
2 tablespoons instant espresso powder or coffee crystals
2 tablespoons ground whole espresso coffee beans (medium-coarse grind)
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
2 teaspoons mild-flavored (light) molasses
4 large eggs
1 1/2 cups sour cream
1/3 cup sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Espresso coffee beans (optional)

Finely grind cookies, chopped chocolate, brown sugar, and nutmeg in processor. Add butter and process until crumbs begin to stick together, scraping down bowl occasionally, about 1 minute. Transfer crumbs to 10-inch-diameter springform pan with 3-inch-high sides. Wrap plastic wrap around fingers and press crumb mixture firmly up sides to within 1/2 inch of top edge, then over bottom of pan.
Bring whipping cream to simmer in large saucepan. Remove from heat; add chocolate and Kahlúa. Whisk until chocolate is melted and ganache is smooth. Pour 2 cups ganache over bottom of crust. Freeze until ganache layer is firm, about 30 minutes. Reserve remaining ganache; cover and let stand at room temperature to use later for creating lattice pattern.
Position rack in middle of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until blended. Beat in flour. Stir rum, espresso powder, ground coffee, vanilla, and molasses in small bowl until instant coffee dissolves; beat into cream cheese mixture. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl.
Pour filling over cold ganache in crust. Place cheesecake on rimmed baking sheet. Bake until top is brown, puffed and cracked at edges, and center 2 inches moves only slightly when pan is gently shaken, about 1 hour 5 minutes. Transfer cheesecake to rack. Cool 15 minutes while preparing topping (top of cheesecake will fall slightly). Maintain oven temperature.
Whisk sour cream, sugar, and vanilla in medium bowl to blend. Pour topping over hot cheesecake, spreading to cover filling completely. Bake until topping is set, about 10 minutes. Transfer cheesecake to rack. Refrigerate hot cheesecake on rack until cool, about 3 hours.
Run small sharp knife between crust and pan sides to loosen cake; release pan sides. Transfer cheesecake to platter. Spoon reserved ganache into pastry bag fitted with small star tip. Pipe 6 diagonal lines atop cheesecake, spacing 1 inch apart. Repeat in opposite direction, making lattice. Pipe rosettes of ganache around top edge of cake. Garnish with coffee beans, if desired. Chill until lattice is firm, at least 6 hours. (Can be made 4 days ahead. Wrap loosely in foil, forming dome over lattice; keep chilled.)

Hot Chocolate and Grand Marnier  inchCupcakes inch 
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
1/2 cup sugar
2 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
2 tablespoons Grand Marnier or other orange-flavored liqueur
1/4 cup all purpose flour
Lightly sweetened whipped cream

Line 12-cup muffin pan with muffin papers. Combine chocolate and butter in heavy small saucepan; stir over medium-low heat until melted and smooth, about 1 minute. Remove saucepan from heat.
Using electric mixer, beat sugar, eggs, egg yolks, and liqueur in large bowl until thick ribbon falls when beaters are lifted, about 5 minutes. Sift flour over; using rubber spatula, gently fold in flour. Fold in chocolate mixture. Divide batter among muffin papers. Cover and chill until cold and firm, at least 25 minutes. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled.)
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Bake cupcakes in papers on baking sheet until tops are puffed and cracked and tester inserted into center comes out with moist batter attached, about 7 minutes. Serve cupcakes with whipped cream.

Mexican Chocolate Icebox Cake 
60 sponge-cake-type ladyfingers (from three 3-ounce packages)
2 3/4 cups chilled whipping cream
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1/4 cup sugar
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons powdered sugar
1/2 cup unsalted butter, room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 ounce semisweet chocolate, grated

Line bottom of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with ladyfingers. Line sides of pan with ladyfingers, standing ladyfingers side by side and rounded side out. Stir 3/4 cup whipping cream, unsweetened chocolate and 1/4 cup sugar in heavy small saucepan over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Remove saucepan from heat and cool to room temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat 1 cup powdered sugar, butter and 1 teaspoon vanilla in large bowl until blended. Beat in cooled chocolate mixture. Combine remaining 2 cups cream, 2 tablespoons powdered sugar, 1 teaspoon vanilla and cinnamon in another large bowl. Using clean dry beaters, beat until firm peaks form. Fold half of whipped cream mixture into chocolate mixture.
Spread half of chocolate filling in ladyfinger-lined pan. Top with layer of ladyfingers, then remaining chocolate filling. Pipe or spread remaining whipped cream mixture over filling. Sprinkle with grated semisweet chocolate. Refrigerate until firm, at least 3 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.) Remove pan sides from cake and serve.

Almond Lace Cookies 
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
1/4 cup light corn syrup
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup sliced almonds, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and generously grease 2 large baking sheets.
Cook brown sugar, butter, and corn syrup in a 1-quart saucepan over moderate heat, stirring occasionally, until smooth. Remove from heat, then stir in flour and almonds.
Spoon scant tablespoons of batter 6 inches apart on baking sheets (4 cookies per sheet) and bake 1 sheet at a time in middle of oven until golden brown and bubbling, 6 to 8 minutes. (Cookies will spread to 5 to 6 inches.) Cool cookies on sheet 1 to 2 minutes. Quickly but carefully remove cookies from sheet with a metal spatula and transfer to a rack to cool completely. (If they become too brittle to transfer, return baking sheet to oven for about 1 minute to allow cookies to soften.)

Devil's Food Cake with Brown Sugar Buttercream 
1 cup boiling water
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
1/2 cup whole milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups packed dark brown sugar
3/4 cup granulated sugar
4 large eggs
Brown sugar buttercream or chocolate sour cream frosting
Garnish: chocolate curls tipped with gold leaf

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 3 (8- by 2-inch) round cake pans and line bottoms of each with rounds of wax or parchment paper. Butter paper and dust pans with flour, knocking out excess.
Whisk together boiling water and cocoa powder in a bowl until smooth, then whisk in milk and vanilla. 3Sift together flour, baking soda, and salt in another bowl.
Beat together butter and sugars in a large bowl with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy, then add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in flour and cocoa mixtures alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture (batter may look curdled).
Divide batter among pans, smoothing tops. Bake in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of pans halfway through baking, until a tester comes out clean and layers begin to pull away from sides of pans, 20 to 25 minutes total. Cool layers in pans on racks 10 minutes, then invert onto racks, remove wax paper, and cool completely.
Put 1 cake layer, rounded side up, on a cake plate and spread with about 1 cup buttercream. Top with another cake layer, rounded side up, and spread with another cup buttercream. Top with remaining cake layer and frost top and sides of cake with remaining buttercream.

Pear Cake with Lemon-Honey Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
3/4 cup vegetable oil
2 large eggs
1/3 cup whole milk
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 cups coarsely grated peeled Bosc pears (from about 3 pounds), well drained
1/2 cup walnuts, toasted, chopped
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup powdered sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
3/4 cup honey

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Whisk flour, sugar, baking soda, salt and spices in large bowl. Make well in center of flour mixture. Add oil, eggs, milk and vanilla; whisk just until evenly moistened. Fold in pears and nuts; divide between pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks.
Beat cream cheese, butter, powdered sugar, vanilla and lemon peel in large bowl until fluffy. Add honey and beat until smooth. If frosting is very soft, chill until firm enough to spread.
Cut around cakes; turn out of pans. Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on platter. Spread with 1 cup frosting. Top with second layer, flat side down. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake.

Lime Sugar Cookies 
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
2 tablespoons cold vegetable shortening
1 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup lime sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt

Beat together butter, shortening, granulated sugar, and 2 tablespoons lime sugar with an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Beat in egg and vanilla. Sift flour, baking powder, and salt together over egg mixture, then beat on low speed until just combined.
Form dough into a 10-inch log (2 inches in diameter) on wax paper, then wrap in wax paper. Chill dough until firm, at least 4 hours.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Remove wax paper and cut log into 1/4-inch-thick rounds. Bake cookies 1/2 inch apart on ungreased baking sheets in batches in middle of oven 10 to 12 minutes, or until pale golden. Immediately transfer with a metal spatula to a rack set over a sheet of wax paper and sprinkle tops with remaining lime sugar. Cool cookies.

Chocolate-Chocolate Chip Cream Cake 
1 1/4 cups cake flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 cup water
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup sugar
2/3 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
2 large eggs
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons buttermilk
Chocolate-Chocolate Chip Cream Frosting
White chocolate shavings and bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate shavings

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour sides of two 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms of pans with parchment paper; butter and flour parchment. Sift cake flour, baking soda and salt into medium bowl. Stir cocoa and 1/2 cup water in large bowl until very thick paste forms. Set aside.
Beat unsalted butter, sugar and brown sugar in another medium bowl until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Gradually add egg mixture to cocoa mixture, beating until mixture is smooth. Beat in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk in 2 additions each, beating well after each addition.
Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake until tester inserted into center of cakes comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on rack 15 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks; peel off parchment. Cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap in plastic and store at room temperature.)
Using serrated knife, cut each cake horizontally in half (layers will be thin). Using 9-inch tart pan bottom as aid, transfer 1 cake layer, cut side up, to platter. Spread generous 1/2 cup Chocolate- Chocolate Chip Cream Frosting over. Repeat layering 2 more times, using 1 cake layer and generous 1/2 cup frosting for each layer. Top with fourth cake layer, cut side down. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Sprinkle top with white and bittersweet chocolate shavings. Chill at least 1 hour and up to 6 hours. Slice cake.

Chocolate Pound Cake with Strawberry Ice Cream and Bittersweet Chocolate Sauce 
1 1/2 cups cake flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
4 large eggs
3/4 cup sour cream
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 cup semisweet miniature chocolate chips (about 6 1/2 ounces)
Sweetened Strawberries
1 1/2 quarts strawberry ice cream
Bittersweet Chocolate Sauce

Preheat oven to 325 degrees . Butter and flour 9x5x3-inch metal loaf pan. Sift flour, cocoa, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add sugar; beat until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in sour cream and vanilla. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions, beating well after each addition. Fold in chocolate chips. Transfer batter to pan. Smooth top.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 35 minutes. Cool in pan on rack 15 minutes. Run knife between pan sides and cake; turn cake out onto rack. Cool. Wrap in foil; let stand at room temperature at least 1 day. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Store wrapped in foil at room temperature.)
Cut pound cake into 3/4-inch-thick slices. Place 1 cake slice on each of 10 plates. Spoon Sweetened Strawberries and scoop of ice cream alongside. Drizzle with Bittersweet Chocolate Sauce and serve.

Windmill Cookies 
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup hot water
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2 cups packed dark brown sugar
4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon ground mace
Pinch of ground cloves
1 cup slivered almonds (4 oz)

Stir together baking soda and water until baking soda is dissolved.
Beat together butter, brown sugar, and baking soda mixture with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy.
Whisk together flour, salt, and spices, then mix into butter mixture until combined well. Stir in almonds. Form dough into 3 (10- by 3-inch) logs and wrap tightly in plastic wrap. Freeze logs until firm, about 4 hours, or overnight.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Keeping remaining logs frozen, cut 1 log crosswise into slices slightly less than 1/4 inch thick and arrange slices 1 inch apart on an ungreased baking sheet. Bake in middle of oven until set, 12 to 14 minutes, then transfer to racks to cool. Slice and bake remaining dough in same manner.

Caramel Chomeur 
1 1/4 cups whole milk
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
1/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
2 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter, diced
Vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine 1/2 cup milk, melted butter and vanilla in small bowl. Whisk flour, baking powder and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat eggs and 1/4 cup sugar in large bowl until thick and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Alternately beat flour mixture into egg mixture in 3 additions and milk mixture in 2 additions, beating well after each addition. Set batter aside.
Combine 3/4 cup milk, brown sugar and diced butter in 8-inch-diameter ceramic soufflé dish. Spoon cake batter over brown sugar mixture in soufflé dish. Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean and syrup is bubbling at edges, about 40 minutes. Serve hot with vanilla ice cream.

Chocolate Snowball Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 tablespoons dark rum
1 tablespoon instant coffee
2 2/3 cups semisweet chocolate chips (about 1 pound)
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, diced
1 1/2 cups sugar
6 large eggs
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees . Line 10-cup ovenproof glass bowl or 10-cup metal bowl smoothly with foil. Spray foil with nonstick spray. Combine dark rum and instant coffee in small bowl or ramekin; stir to dissolve coffee.
Combine chocolate chips and butter in large bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water. Stir until chocolate and butter are melted and smooth. Remove bowl from over water. Using electric mixer, beat in sugar, then coffee mixture. Beat until mixture cools to lukewarm, about 3 minutes. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Transfer batter to foil-lined bowl.
Bake cake until top is cracked and dry and tester inserted into center comes out with some moist batter attached, about 1 hour 5 minutes. Cool cake in bowl on rack 15 minutes (center of cake will fall). Press edge of cake firmly to level with center of cake. Refrigerate cake uncovered until cold, at least 6 hours and up to 2 days.
Invert bowl with cake onto platter, allowing cake to fall onto platter. Lift off bowl; peel off foil. Beat cream in large bowl until peaks form. Spread whipped cream all over cake, mounding cream in center. Cut into wedges and serve, or refrigerate up to 6 hours.

Honey and Almond Biscotti 
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 cups plus 1 tablespoon sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
5 large eggs
1 tablespoon honey
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup whole almonds, toasted

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter and flour large baking sheet. Whisk flour, 1 1/2 cups sugar, baking powder and salt in large bowl to blend. Make well in center of dry ingredients. Add 4 eggs, honey, lemon peel and vanilla to well. Stir egg mixture until blended; gradually mix in dry ingredients. Mix in almonds.
Drop dough onto prepared sheet by tablespoonfuls, forming two 12-inch-long by 2-inch-wide logs. Space logs 3 inches apart. Using moistened fingertips, shape logs neatly. Beat remaining egg in small bowl. Brush logs generously with egg; sprinkle with 1 tablespoon sugar. Bake logs until golden and firm to touch, about 15 minutes. Cool logs on baking sheet 10 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Transfer warm logs to work surface. Cut on slight diagonal into 1/2-inch-thick slices. Arrange slices, cut side down, on 2 clean baking sheets. Bake until pale golden, about 8 minutes. Cool completely. Store airtight up to 1 week.

Tipsy Cake 
1 cup whole milk
3/4 cup heavy cream
4 large egg yolks
1/2 cup sugar
5 teaspoons cornstarch
1 1/2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
3/4 teaspoon vanilla
2 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
3/4 cup whole milk
8 tablespoons sweet Sherry, brandy, or dessert wine
9 tablespoons strawberry jam
Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream

Bring milk and cream just to a boil in a 3-quart heavy saucepan and remove from heat. Whisk together yolks, sugar, cornstarch, and a pinch of salt in a bowl and add hot milk mixture in a slow stream, whisking constantly. Pour custard into pan and boil, whisking, until thick and smooth, about 1 minute. Force custard through a fine sieve into a bowl. Set bowl of custard frosting in a larger bowl of ice and cold water, then cool, stirring occasionally, until cold. Chill frosting, its surface covered with plastic wrap to prevent a skin from forming, 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 (8- by 2-inch) round cake pans and line bottoms with wax paper. Butter paper and dust with flour, knocking out excess. Sift together 1 1/2 cups cake flour, baking powder, and salt. Beat together butter, sugar, and vanilla in a large bowl with an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Add eggs, 1 at a time, then yolk, beating well after each addition. With mixer on low speed, alternately add milk and flour mixture in 4 batches, beginning and ending with milk (mixture will look curdled; do not overbeat).
Divide batter between cake pans, smoothing tops. Bake in middle of oven until pale and a tester comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Run a thin knife around edges of pans and invert layers onto a rack. Carefully remove wax paper and cool layers completely.
Halve cake layers horizontally with a long serrated knife. Arrange 1 cake half, cut side up, on a plate and brush with 2 tablespoons Sherry. Spread evenly with 3 tablespoons jam. Repeat with remaining 3 layers, ending with a layer cut side down. Brush top with Sherry. Frost cake with custard.

Triple-Ginger Pound Cake 
3 1/2cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon ground ginger
2 1/2teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups milk (do not use low-fat or nonfat)
1/2 cup minced crystallized ginger
3 1/2 tablespoons grated peeled fresh ginger

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease two 9x5x3-inch loaf pans. Sift flour, ground ginger, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add eggs and yolks 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla. Mix dry ingredients and milk alternately into batter. Fold in crystallized ginger and grated ginger. Divide batter between prepared loaf pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool cakes in pans 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks; cool completely. (Can be prepared up to 1 month ahead. Double-wrap cakes with plastic; freeze.)

Chocolate Sheet Cake with Sour Cream Frosting 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 cup sweetened instant chocolate drink mix (such as NesQuik)
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
3 large eggs
1 1/2 cups sour cream
3 cups semisweet chocolate chips (about 18 ounces)
1/2 cup almonds, toasted, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13x9x2-inch metal baking pan. Whisk first 5 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add sugar, beating until well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in flour mixture in 4 additions alternately with 3/4 cup sour cream in 3 additions. Fold in 1 1/2 cups chocolate chips and almonds; spread in prepared pan. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool cake. Meanwhile, combine remaining 3/4 cup sour cream and 1 1/2 cups chocolate chips in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over very low heat just until chocolate melts and frosting is smooth (do not boil). Spread frosting over cake in pan. Let stand until frosting sets, at least 1 hour.

Walnut Thins 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup packed light brown sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 cup walnuts (4 ounces), minced, lightly toasted , and cooled

Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.
Beat together butter, brown sugar, and salt in a bowl with an electric mixer until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes, then beat in egg and vanilla until just combined. Sift flour over batter, then fold in. Fold in walnuts.
Drop level 1/2 teaspoons batter about 2 inches apart onto well-buttered baking sheets and pat into 1 1/2-inch rounds with back of a fork. (To keep fork from sticking to batter, dip fork in water, then tap off excess water onto a paper towel.)
Bake cookies in batches in middle of oven until pale golden around edges, 5 to 7 minutes. Carefully loosen hot cookies with a metal spatula and transfer to a rack to cool. (If cookies become too firm to remove without breaking, return to oven for a few seconds to soften.)

Chocolate Chip-Oatmeal Cookies with Nuts and Raisins 
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
6 tablespoons solid vegetable shortening
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups old-fashioned oats
1 1/2 cups semisweet chocolate chips (about 9 ounces)
1/2 cup chopped walnuts
1/2 cup raisins
Nonstick vegetable oil spray

Preheat oven to 350 degrees . Using electric mixer, beat butter, shortening, both sugars, eggs and vanilla in large bowl until well blended. Sift in flour, baking soda and salt; beat to blend. Mix in oats, chocolate chips, nuts and raisins.
Spray baking sheets with nonstick spray. For each cookie, drop 1 rounded tablespoonful of dough onto sheet, spacing 1 inch apart (do not flatten dough). Bake cookies until golden but still slightly soft to touch, about 15 minutes. Cool cookies on sheets. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Palmiers 
A 17 1/4-ounce package frozen puff-pastry sheets (2 pastry sheets), thawed
1 cup sugar, more if needed

1. On a work surface sprinkled with 1/4 cup sugar, place one sheet pastry. Sprinkle top of sheet evenly with 1/4 cup sugar. Using a rolling pin, roll the pastry sheet into a 12-inch square, pressing the sugar into both sides of the pastry.
2. Roll up one edge to middle of pastry sheet. Roll up parallel edge in same manner so that the two rolls are touching; press gently to seal roll. Wrap tightly in plastic wrap and chill until firm, about 30 minutes. Repeat with remaining pastry and sugar. Pastry rolls may be made 2 weeks ahead and frozen.
3. Heat oven to 400 degrees F. Cut chilled pastry roll with a sharp knife crosswise into slices just under 1/4-inch thick. (If roll is frozen, desired number of cookies may be cut frozen and the remaining log frozen again for later use.)
4. Place cookies 2 inches apart on an ungreased cookie sheet. Keep remaining pastry well chilled. Bake palmiers in batches in middle of oven until tops are golden brown. Using an offset spatula, turn and continue baking 10 to 12 minutes more. Transfer cookies to a rack to cool.

Almond Cookies 
4 1/4 cups whole blanched almonds (1 1/2 pounds)
1 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon finely grated fresh lemon or orange zest
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
2 large egg whites, lightly beaten
1 tablespoon honey
1/2 cup lemon or sweet orange marmalade
Garnish: confectioners sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F.
Pulse 3 3/4 cups (1 1/4 pounds) almonds with sugar, zest, and baking powder in a food processor until finely ground. Add egg whites, honey, and marmalade and blend just until dough forms a ball (dough will be very sticky).
Roll tablespoons of dough into 1-inch balls and arrange about 1 inch apart on 2 parchment-paper–lined baking sheets. Flatten each ball into a 1 1/2-inch round with moistened fingers.
Gently press a whole almond into center of each cookie. Bake in middle of oven until tops of cookies are light brown, about 20 minutes, then cool on baking sheets on racks.
Dust with confectioners sugar.

Chocolate-Buttermilk Sheet Cake 
1 cup water
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted margarine, room temperature
1/2 cup plus 3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 cup vegetable oil
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups sugar
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup buttermilk
2 large eggs
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1 pound powdered sugar (about 4 cups)
1/3 cup whole milk
1 cup chopped pecans or walnuts

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 15 1/2 x 10 1/2 x 1-inch baking sheet. Whisk 1 cup water, 1/2 cup margarine, 1/2 cup cocoa powder, vegetable oil, 1 teaspoon vanilla and baking soda in large bowl to blend. Whisk in sugar, flour, salt, then buttermilk and eggs. Spread batter in prepared baking sheet. Sprinkle batter with semisweet chocolate chips. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Transfer cake in pan to rack.
Meanwhile, melt remaining 1/2 cup margarine in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat. Remove from heat. Whisk in powdered sugar, whole milk, remaining 3 tablespoons cocoa powder and 1 teaspoon vanilla.
Spread frosting over warm cake. Sprinkle with nuts. Cool cake completely in pan. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.) Cut into 24 pieces.

Blueberry Coffee Cake 
2 1/3 cups all purpose flour
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup flaked sweetened coconut
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup milk
1 12-ounce package frozen blueberries, unthawed, or 2 1/2 cups fresh

Combine 1/3 cup flour, 1/4 cup butter, coconut, brown sugar and cinnamon in medium bowl. Mix until moist and crumbly. Set topping aside.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter and flour 13x9x2-inch baking pan. Sift remaining 2 cups flour, baking powder and salt into small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat remaining 1/2 cup butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add 1 cup sugar, beating until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating to blend after each addition. Mix dry ingredients into batter alternately with milk in 3 additions each. Fold in blueberries.
Transfer cake batter to prepared baking pan. Sprinkle topping evenly over batter. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean and topping is golden brown, about 40 minutes. Cool cake slightly. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Cinnamon-Chocolate Ribbon Cake 
4 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
3 cups cake flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
2 cups sugar
1 cup vegetable oil
1 cup whole milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/3 cup whipping cream
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
6 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Butter 9 1/2- to 10-inch-diameter angel food cake pan. Line pan bottom with waxed paper; butter paper. Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted. Remove from over water.
Sift flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat eggs in large bowl until foamy. Add sugar and beat until thick and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Gradually beat in oil. Beat in milk and vanilla. Add dry ingredients and beat just until blended.
Transfer 1 1/2 cups batter to small bowl; mix in melted chocolate. Mix cinnamon into remaining batter. Spread half of cinnamon batter in prepared pan. Spoon chocolate batter over. Top with remaining cinnamon batter. Using small knife, swirl batters to marbleize slightly.
Bake cake until test inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides and center tube. Turn cake out onto rack; peel off paper. Turn right side up; cool.
Combine cream, butter and corn syrup in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium heat until mixture simmers. Remove from heat; add chocolate. Whisk until chocolate melts and glaze is smooth. Let cool until glaze thickens slightly but is still spreadable, stirring occasionally, about 30 minutes.
Place cake on platter. Slide waxed paper strips under edge of cake. Spread glaze over cake. Remove paper. Chill until glaze sets. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and keep chilled. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.)

Apple-Walnut Cake 
2 cups diced peeled tart green apples (such as Granny Smith; about 1 1/2 large)
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled
1 large egg
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup coarsely chopped walnuts

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter and flour 8x8x2-inch baking pan. Mix diced apples, sugar, butter and egg in large bowl to blend. Sift flour, cinnamon, baking soda and salt over. Add chopped walnuts; mix thoroughly. Transfer mixture to prepared pan.
Bake until cake is brown and crusty on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack.

Banana Cake with Sour Cream Frosting 
2 cups all purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 large eggs
1 1/4 cups sour cream
1 1/3 cups mashed ripe bananas (about 3 large)
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2/3 cup powdered sugar
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter and flour 13 x 9 x 2-inch metal baking pan. In medium bowl, combine flour, baking soda, baking powder and salt. Using electric mixer, beat butter and 1 1/2 cups sugar in large bowl until blended. Add eggs and beat until fluffy. Mix in 3/4 cup sour cream, bananas and lemon juice. Add dry ingredients to banana mixture and beat until well blended. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until top is golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool completely on rack. (Can be prepared 2 weeks ahead. Cover cake and freeze. Thaw before continuing.)
Beat remaining 1/2 cup sour cream, powdered sugar and cream cheese in large bowl until well blended. Spread frosting over cooled cake.

Apricot, Cornmeal, and Sage Cookies 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened well
3/4 cup sugar
1 large egg
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 cup chopped dried apricots
2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh sage leaves
1/2 cup cornmeal
1/2 teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and lightly grease 2 baking sheets.
In a bowl whisk together butter, sugar, and egg until smooth. Sift in flour and baking soda and add apricots, sage, cornmeal, and salt, stirring until combined.
Drop tablespoons of dough about 1 inch apart onto baking sheets and bake in batches in middle of oven 10 minutes, or until pale golden. Cool cookies on sheets 2 minutes and transfer to a rack to cool.

Lemon Cornmeal Cake with Raspberry Filling 
2 cups frozen unsweetened raspberries, thawed
2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon cornstarch
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
3 large eggs
1 1/4 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup yellow cornmeal
6 teaspoons grated lemon peel
2 teaspoons lemon extract
2 cups chilled whipping cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon lemon extract
3 teaspoons grated lemon peel
3/4 cup sliced almonds, toasted

Puree berries in processor. Strain into heavy medium saucepan. Add sugar and cornstarch. Stir over medium heat until mixture boils and thickens, about 3 minutes. Cool. Cover; chill until cold, about 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom with parchment paper. Butter parchment. Dust pan with flour; shake out excess. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Sift flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Stir in cornmeal. Add to butter mixture and beat just until blended. Mix in lemon peel and extract.
Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until cake is golden and toothpick inserted into center comes out with a few moist crumbs attached, about 35 minutes. Transfer cake to rack, cool. Using knife, cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn cake out. Peel off parchment.
Beat cream, sugar and extract in large bowl until soft peaks form. Beat in 1 1/2 teaspoons lemon peel. Set aside 2/3 cup frosting for decoration.
Using serrated knife, cut cake horizontally into 3 layers. Using bottom of 9-inch-diameter tart pan as aid, transfer 1 layer to platter. Spread half of filling over. Spread 1 cup frosting over filling. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining filling over. Spread 1 cup frosting over filling. Top with third cake layer. Spread sides and top of cake with remaining frosting. Press nuts onto sides of cake. Spoon reserved 2/3 cup frosting into pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Pipe around top edge of cake. Sprinkle top of cake with 1 1/2 teaspoons lemon peel. (Can be made 4 hours ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.)

Walnut Maple Torte with Maple Meringue Frosting 
1 cup walnuts
1 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon instant espresso powder
1 tablespoon boiling-hot water
1 1/2 sticks (1/8 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
3 large eggs
1 1/2 tablespoons vegetable oil
6 ounces cream cheese, softened
5 tablespoons pure maple syrup
2 large egg whites
1 cup pure maple syrup
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. and butter and flour two 8-inch round cake pans, knocking out excess flour.
On a baking sheet toast walnuts in middle of oven until 1 shade darker, about 8 minutes, and cool. In a food processor grind walnuts fine.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking powder, and a pinch salt. In a small cup stir together espresso powder and water. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugar until light and fluffy and add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in flour mixture, espresso, walnuts, and oil until just combined.
Spoon batter into cake pans, smoothing tops, and bake in middle of oven about 25 minutes, or until pale golden and a tester comes out clean. Cool cake layers in pans on a rack 15 minutes. Run a thin knife around edges of pans and invert cake layers onto rack to cool completely.
In a small bowl beat together cream cheese and 2 tablespoons maple syrup until smooth.
Arrange 1 cake layer on an ovenproof serving plate and with a pastry brush gently brush top with 1 1/2 tablespoons maple syrup. Spread cream cheese mixture evenly onto layer and top with remaining layer. Brush top of torte with remaining 1 1/2 tablespoons maple syrup. Torte may be prepared up to this point 2 days ahead and chilled, covered. Bring torte to room temperature before proceeding.
Let whites stand at room temperature 1 hour. In a 1-quart heavy saucepan bring maple syrup to a boil over moderate heat and simmer until a candy thermometer registers 235 degrees  F. (be careful it doesn―t bubble over).
While maple syrup is simmering, in bowl of a standing electric mixer beat whites with cream of tartar and a pinch salt until they just hold stiff peaks. Add hot maple syrup in a stream, beating until meringue is thickened and glossy, 1 to 2 minutes.
Preheat broiler.
Immediately frost torte with a narrow metal spatula, mounding extra meringue on top and drawing it up with a fork to form peaks (see photograph, page 111). Broil torte about 4 inches from heat until tops of peaks are pale golden, about 30 seconds. Let torte stand at room temperature 15 minutes before serving.

Quick and Easy Spice Cake 
2 1/2 cups bleached all purpose flour
2 teaspoons pumpkin pie spice
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups firmly packed dark brown sugar
1/2 cups (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 egg
1 cup buttermilk
1 cup chopped walnuts
Rum raisin or vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 8-inch square metal baking pan. Mix first 4 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Whisk sugar, butter and egg in large bowl until smooth. Whisk in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk, beginning with dry ingredients. Fold in nuts. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted in center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool slightly in pan on rack. Serve warm with ice cream.

Coconut-Rum Roulade 
1 1/2 cups sweetened shredded coconut, toasted
1/4 cup all purpose flour
6 large eggs, separated, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 cup canned sweetened cream of coconut (such as Coco Lopez)
1 cup whipping cream
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon peel
5 large egg yolks
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
9 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 tablespoon white rum
1/4 teaspoon imitation coconut extract
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup sour cream
3 tablespoons white rum
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sweetened shredded coconut, toasted
8 thin lemon slices, cut into quarters

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 11x17-inch jelly roll pan. Line with parchment. Finely grind coconut and flour in processor. Using electric mixer, beat yolks and 1/4 cup sugar in large bowl until pale yellow and slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are lifted, about 5 minutes. Stir in lemon peel. Using clean dry beaters, beat whites and salt in another bowl until medium peaks form. Gradually beat in remaining 1/4 cup sugar and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into yolk mixture in 2 additions. Gently fold in coconut mixture. Spread batter evenly into prepared pan. Bake until toothpick inserted into center comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Slide cake on parchment onto rack; cool. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Return cake to pan. Cover with plastic; store at room temperature.)
Bring first 3 ingredients to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Whisk yolks and flour in bowl to blend. Gradually whisk in some of hot cream mixture. Return mixture to saucepan and stir over medium heat until custard boils and thickens, about 2 minutes. Pour mixture into bowl. Cool to lukewarm. Add butter and whisk until smooth. Whisk in rum and coconut extract. Cover and chill until very thick but still spreadable, about 1 hour. Slide cake on parchment onto work surface. Run long sharp knife between cake and parchment to loosen.
Spread filling over cake, leaving 3/4-inch border. Starting at 1 long side, roll up cake jelly roll style. Transfer to platter seam side down. (Can be prepared 8 hours ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
Whip cream, sour cream, rum, sugar, lemon peel and vanilla in medium bowl to stiff peaks. Spread frosting over cake. Press coconut onto sides of cake, leaving 2-inch-wide strip without coconut down center. Decorate center strip with lemon.

Cornmeal Cranberry Cookies 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup yellow cornmeal
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 sticks (1 1/2 cups) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla
2 cups dried cranberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
In a bowl whisk together flour, cornmeal, baking powder, and salt. In a large bowl with an electric mixer cream together butter and sugar until light and fluffy and beat in eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add flour mixture and vanilla and stir until combined well. Stir in cranberries.
Drop dough by rounded teaspoons 2 inches apart onto greased baking sheets and bake cookies in batches in middle of oven 16 to 18 minutes, or until golden. Transfer cookies with a spatula to racks to cool. Cookies keep in airtight containers 5 days.

Langues-de-Chat 
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup egg whites (about 2 large)
6 tablespoons all purpose flour
Pinch of salt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 large baking sheets. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in medium bowl until well blended. Beat in lemon peel and vanilla. Add egg whites and beat 30 seconds. Add flour and salt; beat just until blended
Spoon batter into pastry bag fitted with 1/3-inch plain round tip. Pipe batter onto baking sheets in 2 1/2-inch-long strips, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake until edges are golden, about 10 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks; cool (cookies will crisp as they cool). (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.).

Panettone Filled with Candied-Fruit Pastry Cream 
1 1-pound 10 1/2-ounce purchasedpanettone bread or one 2-pound panettone
Rum mixture (reserved from Candied-Fruit Pastry Cream)Candied-Fruit Pastry Cream
5 ounces semisweet chocolate,chopped
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1/3 cup sliced almonds, toasted

Turn panettone upside down. Peel paper off flat end but leave paper on sides. Using serrated knife and starting 1/2 inch from edge, cut around edge and down to 1 inch from rounded end of panettone (do not perforate top). Turn bread rounded side up. Insert serrated knife into side of bread just above paper and cut 3-inch-long horizontal slit. Insert knife in slit (do not perforate sides) and cut cylinder-shaped center of bread free. Insert fingertips into slit; press down to release cylinder. Remove cylinder; cut horizontally into 4 rounds.
Place bread flat end up in bowl. Brush inside with some of rum mixture. Spoon 1 cup pastry cream into bread. Top with 1 bread round. Brush with some of rum mixture. Repeat layering twice with pastry cream, bread rounds and rum mixture. Cover with remaining bread round. Turn flat side down onto platter. Chill 4 hours.
Stir chocolate and butter in heavy saucepan over low heat until smooth.
Peel paper from sides of bread. Pour chocolate mixture over top, allowing to drip down sides. Sprinkle with almonds. Chill at least 6 hours or overnight.

Swedish Ginger Thins 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cloves
1/2 cup well-chilled heavy cream
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup dark corn syrup
Garnish: sliced almonds

Into a large bowl sift together flour, baking soda, and spices. In a medium bowl with an electric mixer beat cream until it just holds stiff peaks. In another large bowl beat butter and sugar until mixture is light and fluffy and on low speed beat in corn syrup and whipped cream, beating until cream is just combined. Add flour mixture and beat until combined well. Form dough into a disk. Chill disk, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, at least 2 hours, and up to 2 days.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Cut dough into quarters and work with 1 quarter at a time, keeping remaining dough covered and chilled. Using a rolling pin with cover dusted with flour, roll out dough into a round on a floured pastry cloth, rolling dough as thin as possible (less than 1/8 inch thick and about 14 inches in diameter) and with assorted 2- to 3-inch cutters cut out cookies. Carefully transfer cookies as cut to ungreased baking sheets with a metal spatula, arranging them about 1/2 inch apart, and top each with an almond slice. Reroll scraps and cut out more cookies in same manner.
Bake cookies in batches in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until cookies puff and then collapse slightly, about 6 minutes. Cool cookies on sheets 1 minute and transfer with metal spatula to racks to cool completely. Make more cookies with remaining dough in same manner. Cookies keep in airtight containers at room temperature 1 week.

Chocolate-Filled Almond Macaroons 
7 ounces almond paste
1 cup sugar
2 large egg whites
40 whole almonds (about)
1/4 cup whipping cream
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
1/2 teaspoon grated orange peel
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Generously butter heavy large nonstick cookie sheets. Blend almond paste, sugar and egg whites in processor until smooth. Drop dough by slightly rounded teaspoonfuls onto prepared sheets, spacing evenly. Press 1 almond onto each mound. Bake until cookies are golden brown, about 10 minutes. Let cookies rest on sheets until just cool to touch, about 5 minutes. Using spatula, transfer cookies to rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Store cookies in airtight container at room temperature.)
Bring cream, butter and orange peel to simmer in heavy small saucepan. Reduce heat to low. Add chocolate and stir until mixture is smooth. Remove from heat and let ganache stand until thick but spreadable, about 20 minutes.
Spread some ganache over flat side of 1 cookie. Sandwich with flat side of another cookie. Repeat with remaining cookies and ganache. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate in airtight container. Bring cookies to room temperature before serving.)

Praline Cheesecake with Hazelnut Crust 
1/2 cup coarsely chopped hazelnuts
1/2 cup light corn syrup
1/2 cup firmly packed brown sugar
6 whole graham crackers, broken into pieces
1/2 cup hazelnuts (about 2 ounces)
2 tablespoons dark brown sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
2 tablespoons Frangelico (hazelnut liqueur)
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup plus 1/3 cup sugar
4 eggs separated
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup all purpose flour
3 tablespoons Frangelico
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup chilled whipping cream
2 tablespoons sugar
Roasted hazelnuts
Cocoa powder

Lightly butter cookie sheet. Stir chopped hazelnuts, corn syrup and brown sugar in heavy small saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and boil mixture until candy thermometer registers 300 degrees F., tilting pan if necessary to submerge end of thermometer, about 10 minutes. Pour praline mixture onto prepared cookie sheet. Let cool. Break praline into 1-inch pieces. Grind finely in food processor. (Praline can be prepared up to 1 week ahead. Wrap tightly in aluminum foil and refrigerate.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Finely grind graham crackers, hazelnuts and brown sugar in processor. Add butter and Frangelico and process until crumbs are evenly moistened. Press crumb mixture onto bottom of prepared pan. Bake 10 minutes. Cool on rack. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese with 1/2 cup sugar until light and fluffy. Add yolks 1 at a time, beating after each addition until just blended. Add sour cream, flour, Frangelico and vanilla and beat just until mixture is smooth. Stir in ground praline. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1/3 cup sugar and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold egg whites into cream cheese mixture in two additions. Pour filling into prepared crust.
Bake cake until center is just set, about 50 minutes. Turn off oven and leave cake in oven 40 minutes longer.
Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool to room temperature. Cut around pan sides with small sharp knife to loosen cheesecake. Cover and refrigerate overnight. Release pan sides. Beat whipping cream and 2 tablespoons sugar to firm peaks. Transfer to pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Pipe rosettes of cream decoratively around edge of cake. Arrange 1 hazelnut atop each rosette. Dust top of cheesecake with cocoa powder. (Can be prepared 4 hours ahead; refrigerate.)

Chocolate Mint Icebox Cake 
1/3 cup loosely packed fresh mint leaves, rinsed, spun dry, and chopped fine, plus, if desired, mint sprigs for garnish
3 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder
1 cup heavy cream, chilled
a 9-ounce package chocolate wafers

In a bowl of an electric mixer combine the mint leaves, the sugar, the cocoa powder, and the cream, beat the mixture until it holds soft peaks, and spread about 1 mounded teaspoon of it on one side of each wafer. On a platter sandwich the wafers together on their sides to form a log and ice the log with the remaining cream mixture, covering it completely. Chill the cake, covered loosely with plastic wrap, for at least 6 hours or overnight. Cut the cake diagonally into 3/4-inch-thick slices and serve it garnished with the mint sprigs.

Age of Lincoln Almond-Streusel Bundt Cake with Coffee Glaze 
1/2 cup firmly packed brown sugar
1/2 cup chopped toasted almonds
1/3 cup old-fashioned oats
1 1/2 teaspoons instant espresso powder or instant coffee powder
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
3 cups sifted cake flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 cup whole almonds, toasted
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup almond paste
1 2/3 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1 cup milk
6 large egg whites, room temperature
1 cup powdered sugar, sifted
1/4 cup whipping cream
1 teaspoon instant espresso powder or instant coffee powder
1/3 cup toasted sliced almonds

Mix first 5 ingredients in small bowl. Add butter and rub in with fingertips until well blended. Set aside.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. Butter and flour 12-cup Bundt pan. Mix flour and baking powder in small bowl. Finely grind almonds in processor. Using electric mixer, beat butter and almond paste in large bowl until blended. Gradually beat in 1 1/3 cups sugar. Continue beating until fluffy. Beat in extract. Stir in dry ingredients alternately with milk. Mix in ground almonds. Using electric mixer fitted with clean dry beaters, beat whites in another large bowl to medium peaks. Gradually add remaining 1/3 cup sugar and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold meringue into batter in 2 additions. Transfer half of batter to prepared Bundt pan. Sprinkle streusel over. Spoon remaining batter over. Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool cake in pan on rack 20 minutes. Turn out cake onto rack and cool completely. (Cake can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.)
Stir powdered sugar, whipping cream and instant espresso powder in small bowl until well blended. Drizzle glaze over cake, allowing excess to run down sides. Sprinkle cake with sliced almonds.

Chocolate Ginger Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
4 teaspoons ground ginger
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup apple juice
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 teaspoon cider vinegar
Powder sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 9-inch round cake pan with 1 1/2-inch-high sides with vegetable oil spray. Line bottom of pan with parchment. Sift flour, 3/4 cup sugar, cocoa powder, ginger, baking soda, cinnamon and salt into large bowl. Whisk juice, oil and vinegar in medium bowl to blend. Add to dry ingredients; stir just until moistened. Spoon batter into prepared pan. Using spatula, smooth top.
Bake until cake begins to pull away from sides of pan and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Transfer pan to rack and cool.
Using knife, cut around sides of pan to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto platter. Turn cake right side up. Sift powdered sugar over top. Cut into wedges.

Un-Rugelach Mini Turnovers 
1/2 of an 8-ounce package cream cheese, softened
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 cup (sifted into the cup and leveled off) bleached all-purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon salt
approx. 3 tablespoons granulated sugar
2 tablespoons, packed light brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 cup + 2 tablespoons golden raisins
1/2 cup coarsely chopped walnuts
1/3 cup apricot lekvar or preserves (well stirred)
1 tablespoon granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 tablespoons milk
Two 12- by 17-inch cookie sheets or inverted half-size sheet pans, lined with parchment or foil

In a food processor with the metal blade, place the cream cheese and butter and process until smooth and creamy, scraping the sides once or twice. Add the sugar and vanilla and process for a few seconds to incorporate them. Add the flour and salt and pulse just until the dough starts to clump together.
In a mixing bowl, beat the cream cheese and butter until blended. Beat in the sugar and vanilla extract. On low speed, beat in the flour and salt just until incorporated
Scrape the dough into a piece of plastic wrap and press it together to form a ball. Place the dough in a bowl, cover it well, and refrigerate for at least 2 hours, or overnight.
In a medium bowl, with a fork, stir together the sugars, cinnamon, raisins and walnuts until well mixed.
Using a 1 1/4 inch cookie scoop or a tablespoon measure, scoop out level measures of dough, placing them on a cookie sheet. Refrigerate the dough. Remove one piece of dough and roll it quickly between floured palms to form a ball. Dust it well with flour and place it between two sheets of plastic wrap. Use the flat bottom of a tumbler to press the ball flat and then a light rolling pin to roll it into a 3 1/2-inch circle. Remove the top sheet of plastic wrap and spread rounded 1/2 tablespoons of apricot lekvar or preserves evenly over the dough, almost to the edge. Carefully place 2 teaspoons of the nut mixture on one half of the dough circle, leaving a narrow border. Use the plastic wrap to lift the other half of the dough up and over the filling to encase it. Leaving the plastic wrap in place, press along the border of the dough to seal in the filling. Remove the plastic wrap, brush away any excess flour, and place the turnover on a prepared cookie sheet. Repeat with the remaining dough and filling, leaving at least 1 1/2 inches between each turnover. For the best shape, cover the turnovers with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes before baking.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. at least 15 minutes before baking. Set the oven racks so that they divide the oven into thirds.
In a small bowl, stir together the sugar and cinnamon for the topping.
With a pastry brush or feather, brush each turnover with milk and sprinkle evenly with the sugar and cinnamon topping.
Bake for 15 to 20 minutes or until lightly browned. For even baking, rotate the cookie sheets from top to bottom and back to front halfway through the baking period. Use a small pancake turner to transfer the turnovers to wire racks to cool completely.
Airtight, room temperature, up to 5 days; frozen, up to 3 months.
This cream cheese dough can be more fragile and tender than the one used for pies and tarts (it contains no water to develop gluten), because it does not need strength due to the small size of the pastries.

Chocolate Layer Cake with Chocolate Glaze 
1 1/2 cups milk (do not use low-fat or nonfat)
1/2 cup sugar
3 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
5 large egg yolks
6 ounces milk chocolate, chopped
1 tablespoon butter
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/3 cups all purpose flour
2/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup strong fresh-brewed coffee
3/4 cup buttermilk
6 tablespoons vegetable oil
2 large eggs, beaten to blend
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Chocolate Glaze

Bring milk to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Remove from heat. Combine sugar and cornstarch in large bowl. Beat egg yolks into sugar mixture. Gradually whisk hot milk into yolk mixture. Return mixture to saucepan. Whisk over medium heat until mixture boils and thickens, about 1 minute. Remove from heat; add chocolate, butter and vanilla and whisk until mixture is smooth. Transfer filling to medium bowl. Cool, stirring occasionally. Gently press plastic wrap directly onto surface of filling; cover and chill until cold, at least 3 hours.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 17 1/4 x 11 1/2 x 1-inch jelly roll pan. Line pan with parchment paper. Sift first 6 ingredients into large bowl. Whisk coffee, buttermilk, oil, eggs and vanilla in medium bowl. Add liquid ingredients to dry ingredients; mix just until combined. Transfer batter to prepared pan, spreading evenly. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan on rack. Using small knife, cut around edges of pan. Turn cake out onto work surface. Peel off parchment. Trim tough edges. Cut cake crosswise into three 5x10 1/2-inch pieces. (Filling and cake can be made ahead. Keep filling refrigerated up to 2 days. Wrap cake layers in plastic and refrigerate up to 1 day.)
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread half of filling over top. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining filling over. Top with third cake layer. Pour lukewarm glaze over top and sides of cake, covering completely. Smooth sides with spatula. Refrigerate 2 hours. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead; cover and keep refrigerated.)

Double Lemon Cheesecake 
12 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
2 eggs
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 purchased 9-inch graham cracker crust
1 cup sour cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Blend first 6 ingredients in processor until smooth. Pour mixture into crust. Bake until cake filling is just set, about 35 minutes. Cool cheesecake slightly.
Combine 1 cup sour cream, 2 tablespoons sugar and 1 teaspoon vanilla in small bowl. Spread mixture evenly over cheesecake. Bake 10 minutes. Cool. Refrigerate cake overnight. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead.) Cut into wedges and serve.

Traditional Provencal Christmas Cake 
1 1/2 teaspoons active dry yeast
2 tablespoons orange-flower water
3 1/4 cups unbleached, all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon sea salt
4 large eggs, lightly beaten
3/4 cup sugar
6 tablespoons olive oil
Zest of 1 lemon, minced
1/2 teaspoon anise seeds
1/4 cup candied fruit, diced

In a small bowl, stir the yeast into the orange-flower water. Let it sit until dissolved, about 5 minutes.
Sift the flour and salt into a large bowl. Make a well in the flour and add the eggs, sugar, oil, and the yeast mixture. Mix the liquid ingredients together, using your fingers, until blended. Add the zest, anise seeds, and candied fruit.
Gradually incorporate the flour into the liquid mixture, mixing just until it is all combined. Then knead four or five times. The dough will be quite sticky; lightly dust the work surface with flour and use a plastic dough scraper to help you knead.
For the dough into a ball and place it in a bowl. Cover the bowl with a damp cloth and let it sit in a warm sot (68 degrees -70 degrees F.) until it has risen by half, about 2 hours.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly oil two baking sheets.
Punch down the dough and divide it in half. Knead both batches slightly on a well-floured work surface (use no more than 3 tablespoons flour to dust the work surface) to remove any air pockets. Roll each half out between two sheets of parchment paper to form a 12 x 8-inch oval that is about 1/4-inch thick, and transfer them to the prepared baking sheets. (To do this, peel off the top piece of paper, flip the bread over onto the baking sheet, and remove the second piece of paper. Or roll the dough over a rolling pin, then unroll it on the baking sheet. The soft dough will stretch some, but don't be concerned).
Make a design on each loaf: Working quickly and using a sharp knife, cut a 2 1/2 inch diameter circle in the center of the rolled out dough, cutting all the way through the dough but leaving the circle in place, Then cut five rays out from the circle so the design resembles a sun. Let the dough rise in a warm spot (68 degrees -70 degrees F.) until it has risen slightly, about 30 minutes.
Bake the pompes in the center of the oven until they are golden and puffed, and have developed a scattering of small bumps on their surfaces, about 25 minutes.
Remove the pompes from the oven and transfer them to wire racks to cool. Serve at room temperature.

Almond Tuiles 
vegetable-oil cooking spray or parchment paper
1/2 cup almonds, ground fine
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 large egg whites
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
about 2/3 cup sliced blanched almonds, toasted

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Coat a heavy baking sheet well with cooking spray or line with parchment paper.
In a bowl whisk together ground almonds, flour, sugar, and salt and whisk in whites, butter, and almond extract until combined well. Drop rounded teaspoons batter about 4 inches apart onto baking sheet and with back of a spoon spread into 3 1/2-inch rounds. Sprinkle each cookie with about 1/2 tablespoon sliced almonds and bake in middle of oven 8 minutes, or until golden.
Working quickly, remove cookies, 1 at a time, from baking sheet with a thin spatula and drape over a rolling pin to create a curved shape. (If the cookies become too brittle to form on the rolling pin, return baking sheet to oven a few seconds to allow cookies to soften.) Cool cookies completely on rolling pin and transfer to an airtight container. Make more cookies with remaining batter in same manner, spraying or lining baking sheet for each batch. Tuiles may be made 2 days ahead and kept in an airtight container at room temperature.

Pear Gingerbread Upside-Down Cakes 
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 Anjou pears, peeled, halved, cored
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup unsulfured (light) molasses
1 large egg
1/2 cup hot water
1/4 cup finely chopped crystallized ginger (about 1 1/2 ounces)

Butter six 1 1/4-cup custard cups. Place on baking sheet. Melt 6 tablespoons butter in medium saucepan over low heat. Add 3/4 cup brown sugar; whisk to blend (mixture will look grainy). Divide among prepared cups. Slice each pear half into 1/3-inch-thick wedges. Cut wedges crosswise in half. Place 6 pointed pear pieces in spoke pattern in each cup. Finely chop enough of remaining pear pieces to measure 3/4 cup.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Sift flour, baking soda, ground ginger, cinnamon, cloves and salt into medium bowl. Melt 1/2 cup butter in small saucepan over low heat. Transfer to large bowl; cool slightly. Add 1/2 cup brown sugar. Using electric mixer, beat until well blended. Gradually beat in molasses. Mix in egg. Add dry ingredients; beat until well blended. Beat in hot water. Add crystallized ginger and chopped pears; stir until incorporated.
Spoon batter over pears in custard cups. Place in oven on baking sheet. Bake until cakes feel firm to touch and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool 5 minutes. Invert onto plates. Let stand 10 minutes. Serve warm.

Cherry Almond Cake 
1 pound sour cherries (about 3 cups) plus additional for garnish if desired
1/4 pound blanched whole almonds
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon granulated sugar
3 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
confectioners' sugar for dusting the cake

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Line the bottom of a buttered 9- by 2-inch round cake pan with a round of wax paper, butter the paper, and dust the pan with flour, knocking out the excess. Working over a bowl pit 1 pound of the cherries, reserving any juice.
In a food processor grind fine the almonds with the flour, the baking powder, and the salt. In a bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with 3/4 cup of the granulated sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, add the egg yolks, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and stir in the flour mixture, the vanilla, the almond extract, and the reserved cherry juice.
In another bowl with the electric mixer, beaters cleaned, beat the egg whites until they just hold stiff peaks, stir one fourth of them into the batter to lighten it, and fold in the remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Turn the batter into the pan, smoothing the top, arrange the cherries evenly on it, pressing them into the batter slightly, and sprinkle them with the remaining 1 tablespoon granulated sugar. Bake the cake in the middle of the oven for 30 to 35 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean, and let it cool in the pan on a rack for 10 minutes. Invert the cake onto the rack, invert a cake plate over it, and invert the cake onto the plate. Dust the cake with the confectioners' sugar and garnish it with the additional cherries. Serve the cake warm or at room temperature.

Double Chocolate Cherry Torte 
1 1/2 cups pitted picked-over fresh tart cherries, halved (about 1 pint)
3/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon kirsch
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter
3 large eggs
6 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened)
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup semisweet chocolate chips
Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream

Preheat oven to 325 degrees  F. and butter and flour a 9-inch springform pan, knocking out excess flour.
In a bowl stir together cherries, 1/4 cup sugar, and kirsch and macerate 15 minutes.
Cut butter into pieces and separate eggs. Coarsely chop bittersweet chocolate and in a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water melt chocolate with butter, stirring occasionally. Remove top of double boiler or bowl from heat and cool mixture slightly. Stir in yolks, flour, and salt until combined well. Gently stir in cherries and chocolate chips until just combined.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat whites until they hold soft peaks and gradually add remaining 1/2 cup sugar, beating until whites just hold stiff glossy peaks. Stir half of whites into chocolate mixture to lighten and fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Pour batter into pan and smooth top. Bake torte in middle of oven 50 minutes to 1 hour, or until a tester comes out with crumbs adhering.
Cool torte in pan on a rack (top will fall slightly and crack). Run a thin knife around edge of torte and remove side of pan. Torte may be made 1 day ahead and kept, loosely covered with plastic wrap, at cool room temperature.
Serve torte with whipped cream.

Carrot Cupcakes with Molasses Cream Cheese Icing 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
3/4 cup vegetable oil
1 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
2 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1 3/4 cups finely shredded carrots (about 4)
1/3 cup walnuts, chopped fine, toasted lightly, and cooled
1/2 cup sweetened flaked coconut, toasted lightly and cooled
1/2 cup (about 4 ounces) cream cheese, softened
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 tablespoon unsulfured molasses
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and line twelve 1/2-cup muffin tins with paper liners.
In a bowl whisk together flour, baking soda, salt, and spices. In another bowl whisk together oil, sugar, eggs, and vanilla and with a wooden spoon beat in flour mixture until combined well. Add carrots, walnuts, and coconut, stirring until just combined. Fill muffin tins two thirds full with batter (there will be enough batter remaining to make 4 more cupcakes) and bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, about 18 minutes. Turn cupcakes out onto a rack and cool completely. Muffin tins may be used again immediately for second cupcake batch. Cupcakes may be made 2 days ahead and kept in airtight containers.
In a bowl beat together icing ingredients until fluffy. Icing may be made 2 days ahead and chilled in an airtight container. Soften icing at room temperature to spreading consistency.
Spread icing on cupcakes.

Choco-Colada Cheesecake 
2 cups (about 7 1/2 ounces) chocolate wafer cookie crumbs
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
6 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
4 large eggs, room temperature
2 tablespoons whipping cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
2 cups (lightly packed) sweetened shredded coconut
Additional sweetened shredded coconut

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Wrap outside of pan with heavy-duty foil. Combine cookie crumbs and butter in medium bowl; mix to blend. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of prepared pan. Bake crust until firm to touch, about 8 minutes. Cool crust completely. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until smooth. Remove from over water. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until smooth. Gradually add sugar, beating until blended. Beat in flour. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating to blend after each addition. Beat in cream and both extracts. Stir in 2 cups coconut.
Transfer filling to crust. Drizzle melted chocolate over filling. Using small knife, swirl chocolate and coconut batter together on surface, forming decorative pattern. Place cake in large baking pan. Add enough hot water to baking pan to come 1 inch up sides of cake pan. Bake cake until just set in center and firm around edges, about 1 hour 15 minutes.
Remove cake from water. Cool on rack. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Cover cake with plastic and refrigerate overnight. Let stand at room temperature 30 minutes before serving.
Release springform pan sides. Transfer cake to platter. Sprinkle additional coconut around top edge of cake.

Coconut Cup Cookies 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 cup sweetened shredded coconut (about 4 ounces)
3/4 cup sugar
1 egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) butter, melted, cooled
2 refrigerated pie crusts (one 15-ounce package), room temperature
1/4 cup (about) apricot jam or orange marmalade

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Spray 12-cup muffin pan with vegetable oil spray. Mix coconut, sugar, egg and vanilla in medium bowl. Stir in butter.
Unfold 1 crust on work surface. Using 3-inch-diameter cutter, cut out 12 rounds from crust, patching crust scraps as needed to form 12 rounds. Press rounds gently into prepared muffin cups; bake until light brown, about 10 minutes. Drop about 1/2 teaspoon jam, then 1 scant tablespoon coconut filling into each warm pastry. Bake until filling is brown, about 15 minutes. Cut around cookies to loosen. Using spatula, transfer cookies to rack and cool. Repeat cutting, forming and baking with remaining crust, jam and filling to makes 12 more cookies.

Strawberry Shortcake with Buttermilk Biscuits 
2 1-pound baskets strawberries, hulled, halved (or quartered if very large; about 7 cups)
1/2 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons raspberry preserves
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Buttermilk Biscuits
Powdered sugar

Combine strawberries, 1/2 cup sugar and raspberry preserves in large bowl; toss to coat. Let stand until syrup forms, tossing occasionally, about 1 hour.
Beat chilled whipping cream, vanilla extract and remaining 3 tablespoons sugar in another large bowl until stiff peaks form. (Can be made 6 hours ahead. Cover separately and chill.)
Cut Buttermilk Biscuits in half. Place each biscuit bottom in shallow bowl. Top each generously with strawberries and whipped cream. Cover fruit and cream with biscuit tops. Dust biscuits with powdered sugar and serve.

Cranberry Pear Hazelnut Financier 
1 cup hazelnuts (about 4 ounces)
1 medium firm-ripe pear
1 cup fresh or frozen cranberries, rinsed and picked over
1 cup sugar
2/3 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon salt
6 large egg whites
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
confectioners' sugar for sprinkling
Accompaniment: whipped cream or vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and butter and flour a 9- by 2-inch round cake pan.
Spread hazelnuts in a shallow baking pan and toast in oven until they begin to turn pale golden, 7 to 10 minutes. Cool hazelnuts completely. Discard any hazelnut skins that rub off easily. Increase oven temperature to 400 degrees F.
Peel and core pear. Chop pear coarse and in a bowl toss with cranberries and 1/4 cup sugar.
In a food processor grind nuts with remaining 3/4 cup sugar, flour, and salt until fine.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat whites with a pinch salt until they just hold stiff peaks and fold in nut mixture gently but thoroughly. Fold in butter and vanilla (the batter will deflate) and spread batter evenly in cake pan. Arrange fruit mixture evenly over batter and bake in middle of oven 40 to 45 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean.
Cool cake in pan on a rack 5 minutes and invert onto a plate. Cool cake, fruit side up, on rack until ready to serve.
Sprinkle cake with confectioners' sugar and serve warm or at room temperature with whipped cream or ice cream.

Mississippi Mud Cake 
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups firmly packed dark brown sugar
1 cup sugar
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped, melted
1/4 cup whipping cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
6 large eggs, room temperature
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 cups mini marshmallows
2 cups coarsely chopped toasted pecans (about 7 ounces)
1 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
1 cup whipping cream
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
5 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
2 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) chocolate, chopped
2 tablespoons dark corn syrup
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line two 9-inch square cake pans with 2-inch-high sides with foil, extending foil over sides. Butter and flour foil. Using electric mixer, cream butter and both sugars in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in melted chocolate, cream and vanilla. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Sift flour, cocoa, baking soda and salt into medium bowl. Stir dry ingredients into batter, which will be very thick. Divide batter between prepared pans; spread evenly. Bake until tester inserted into centers comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Remove from oven. Sprinkle 1 1/2 cups marshmallows and 1 cup pecans over each cake. Bake just until marshmallows begin to melt, about 6 minutes. Transfer to racks. Cool cakes completely in pans.
Combine sugar and cream in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Cook without stirring until candy thermometer registers 220 degrees F., about 8 minutes. Remove from heat and whisk in remaining ingredients. Whisk until all chocolate melts and frosting is smooth. Refrigerate frosting until spreadable, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Using foil as aid, lift cakes from pans. Remove foil. Place 1 cake layer on plate, marshmallow side up. Spread 1 1/2 cups frosting over. Top with second cake layer, marshmallow side up. Spread remaining frosting in waves on sides (not top) of cake. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and chill. Bring to room temperature before serving.)

Warm Lemon Pudding Cakes with Marbled Raspberry Cream 
3/4 cup plus 4 tablespoons sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
3 large eggs, separated
1/3 cup all purpose flour
1/3 cup fresh lemon juice
1 1/2 cups milk (do not use low-fat or nonfat)
Powdered sugar
Marbled Raspberry Cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter six 3/4-cup soufflé dishes or custard cups. Place dishes in large roasting pan. Using electric mixer, beat 3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar, 6 tablespoons butter and lemon peel in medium bowl until well blended. Add egg yolks 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in flour, then lemon juice. Gradually mix in milk (mixture will be thin and may look curdled).
Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in large bowl until soft peaks form. Add remaining 2 tablespoons sugar and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into yolk mixture in 3 additions (mixture will be runny).
Divide pudding-cake mixture among prepared soufflé dishes. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to come halfway up sides of dishes.
Bake pudding cakes until puffed and firm to touch, about 25 minutes. Transfer dishes to plates. (Can be prepared 8 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature.) Sprinkle with powdered sugar. Top with dollop of Marbled Raspberry Cream.

Mixed Berry Torte 
2 3-ounce packages soft ladyfingers, split
6 tablespoons raspberry liqueur or juice
1 pint lemon sorbet, softened
1 pint lime sorbet, softened
1 pint mixed berry nonfat frozen yogurt, softened
2 1/2-pint basket raspberries
1 1-pint basket blueberries
1 1/2-pint basket boysenberries or blackberries
Fresh mint sprigs

Trim ladyfingers to fit sides and bottom of 9-inch springform pan. Brush cut sides of ladyfingers with half of liqueur. Fit ladyfingers in bottom and up sides of pan. Layer lemon sorbet, lime sorbet, and frozen yogurt in pan. Smooth top and freeze 4 hours or overnight.
Place all berries in large bowl. Add remaining liqueur and toss to coat. Pile berries on top of torte. Release and remove pan sides. Transfer to platter. Garnish with mint and serve.

Brandy Snap Twirls 
1/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
5 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons Lyle's golden syrup
1 tablespoon water

Preheat oven to 375 degrees  F. and butter a heavy baking sheet.
Into a small bowl sift together flour, ginger, and cloves. In a small saucepan melt butter with sugar, golden syrup, and water over moderate heat, stirring until smooth. Stir in flour mixture until combined well and let stand 2 minutes. Spoon 1 1/4 teaspoons batter onto baking sheet and spread into a 6-inch length. Make 2 or 3 more cookies in same manner, keeping them 2 inches apart. Bake cookies in middle of oven 7 to 10 minutes, or until golden brown, and cool on baking sheet on a rack 30 to 45 seconds, or until firm enough to hold their shape but still pliable.
Working quickly, wrap hot cookies, 1 at a time, in a spiral around handle of a wooden spoon. (If cookies become too crisp to remove from baking sheet, return baking sheet to oven 1 minute, or until cookies are heated through and pliable.) Cool cookies 20 seconds and slide off spoon handle. Make more cookies with remaining batter in same manner. Brandy snap twirls may be made 2 weeks ahead and kept in an airtight container at room temperature.

Lemon Thins 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2/3 firmly packed light brown sugar
1-1/2 tablespoons freshly grated lemon zest
l large egg yolk
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup all-purpose flour

In a bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the brown sugar and the zest until the mixture is light and fluffy and beat in the yolk, the lemon juice, the vanilla, and the salt. Add the flour, sifted, and beat the mixture until it is just combined well. Drop teaspoons of the batter 2 inches apart onto well-buttered baking sheets and bake the cookies in batches in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 8 to 10 minutes, or until they are golden around the edges. Let the cookies cool on the sheet for 1 minute, or until they are just firm enough to be removed, and transfer them to racks to cool.

Wendy's Biscotti 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon freshly grated orange zest
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
2 large eggs
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 ounces white chocolate, chopped coarse (about 1/2 cup)
1/2 cup dried currants
1 1/4 cups natural shelled pistachios

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. and lightly grease and flour a large baking sheet.
In a bowl with an electric mixer, beat together butter, sugar, zest and vanilla until light and fluffy. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition.
Into a bowl, sift together flour, baking powder and salt and gradually beat into butter mixture, beating until combined well. Stir in remaining ingredients. Chill dough 30 minutes, or until it no longer feels sticky.
Turn dough out on a lightly floured surface and halve. Form each piece into a flattish log about 12 inches long by 3 inches wide. Arrange logs at least 3 inches apart on baking sheet and bake in middle of oven until pale golden, about 30 minutes. Cool logs on baking sheet on a rack 5 minutes.
On a cutting board cut logs crosswise on a diagonal into 1-inch-thick slices and arrange biscotti, cut sides down, on baking sheet. Bake biscotti in middle of oven 15 minutes, or until golden.
Transfer biscotti to racks and cool completely. Biscotti keep in an airtight container at room temperature.

Frozen Peach Torte with Almond Crust 
2 cups whole almonds
1/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/4 cup all purpose flour
Pinch of salt
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled
4 tablespoons water
1 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
6 large egg yolks
1/3 cup sugar
3 tablespoons kirsch (clear cherry brandy)
3 1/2 ounces white chocolate (such as Baker's or Lindt), chopped
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
1 cup finely chopped pitted peeled peaches
4 peaches, peeled, thinly sliced
1/4 cup powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Coarsely chop nuts with brown sugar, flour and salt in processor. Add butter; process until nuts are finely chopped. Press half of mixture over bottom of 9-inch diameter spring-form pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Press remaining half of mixture over bottom of 9-inch-diameter cake pan. Bake until crusts are golden, about 20 minutes. Transfer to racks; cool completely. Break crust in cake pan into crumbs.
Place 1 tablespoon water in small bowl. Sprinkle gelatin over; let stand until gelatin softens, about 10 minutes. Whisk yolks, sugar, kirsch and 3 tablespoons water in medium metal bowl until blended. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water; whisk constantly until mixture registers 160 degrees  on candy thermometer, about 4 minutes. Remove bowl from over water. Add gelatin, then white chocolate and whisk until gelatin dissolves and chocolate melts. Let stand until mixture is cool but not set, whisking occasionally, about 10 minutes. Beat cream in large bowl until soft peaks form. Fold yolk mixture into cream.
Spread 1/3 of mousse over crust in springform pan. Sprinkle half of chopped peaches over. Sprinkle half of crumbs over peaches. Drop 1/3 of mousse by tablespoonfuls over peaches, spacing evenly. Spread mousse carefully over, covering crumbs. Sprinkle with remaining chopped peaches and crumbs. Carefully spread remaining mousse evenly over. Cover and freeze overnight. (Can be made 3 days ahead. keep frozen.)
Mix peach slices and powdered sugar in medium bowl. Let stand 15 minutes. Using knife, cut around pan sides to loosen torte. Release pan sides; transfer torte to platter. Arrange peaches in concentric circles atop torte. Let stand at room temperature 30 minutes and serve.

Bobbie Mills's Cinnamon Cake 
2 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising)
2 teaspoons baking powder
4 teaspoons cinnamon
2/3 cup vegetable shortening, softened
1 1/3 cups sugar
2/3 cup milk
3 large eggs
an 8-ounce package cream cheese, softened
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3 3/4 cups confectioners' sugar
1 teaspoon freshly grated lemon zest
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. and butter and flour two 8-inch round cake pans, knocking out excess flour.
In a bowl whisk together flour, baking powder, and cinnamon. In another bowl with an electric mixer beat together shortening and sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in milk and beat in eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add flour mixture and beat until smooth. Divide batter between pans, smoothing tops, and bake in middle of oven 30 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Cool layers in pans on a rack 10 minutes and invert onto rack to cool completely.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together cream cheese and butter until smooth. Gradually beat in confectioners' sugar until combined and beat in lemon zest and juice.
Assemble cake, spreading frosting between layers and on top and side.

No-Fat Mocha Cake 
1 cup all purpose flour
1/3 cup plus 2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon instant espresso powder or instant coffee powder
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
6 large egg whites, room temperature
1 1/3 cups firmly packed golden brown sugar
1 cup coffee-flavored nonfat yogurt
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line bottom of 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 1 3/4-inch-high sides with waxed paper. Spray pan and paper with vegetable oil spray (or oil pan and paper lightly). Dust pan with flour; tap out excess.
Sift 1 cup flour, 1/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon cocoa, espresso powder, baking powder and baking soda into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites, brown sugar, yogurt and vanilla in large bowl until blended, about 1 minute. Mix in dry ingredients. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool in pan on rack 15 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn out onto plate. Peel off paper and cool completely.
Combine remaining 1 tablespoon cocoa powder, powdered sugar and cinnamon in small bowl. Sprinkle over cake before serving.

Dark Chocolate Wedding Cake with Chocolate Orange Ganache and Orange Buttercream 
13/4 cups unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
13/4 cups boiling water
4 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
one 8-ounce container sour cream
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 cups all-purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
3 3/4 sticks (1 3/4 cups plus 2 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1 3/4 cups granulated sugar
3/4 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
5 large eggs
1 cup heavy cream
8 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
2 teaspoons freshly grated orange zest
1 tablespoon Cointreau or other orange-flavored liqueur
one 8-inch cardboard round*
one 6-inch cardboard round*
three 8-inch plastic straws
5 large egg yolks
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup fresh orange juice
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1 1/4 cups sugar
1/2 cup water
5 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
6 1/2 sticks (3 1/4 cups) unsalted butter, cut into pieces and softened to cool room temperature
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons freshly grated orange zest
Note: A cake-decorating turntable* is extremely helpful for assembling and decorating a wedding cake.
Decoration: fraises des bois (wild strawberries)** and small roses with some leaves attached (both fruit and flowers must be nontoxic and pesticide-free)
*available at specialty cookware shops

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F. and line 2 buttered 7- by 2-inch round cake pans and 2 buttered 9- by 2-inch round cake pans with rounds of wax paper. Butter paper and dust pans with flour, knocking out excess.
Put cocoa powder in a bowl and whisk in boiling water in a stream until smooth. Stir in chopped chocolate and let stand 5 minutes. Stir mixture until smooth and chocolate is melted and cool mixture. Whisk in sour cream and vanilla.
Into a bowl sift together flour, baking soda, and salt. In large bowl of a standing electric mixer beat together butter and sugars until light and fluffy and add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition and scraping down side of bowl. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture and cocoa mixture alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating until batter is combined well.
Pour 2 cups batter into each 7-inch pan and smooth tops. Divide remaining batter between 9-inch pans (about 33/4 cups each) and smooth tops. In middle and lower thirds of oven arrange one 9-inch layer and one 7-inch layer on each rack, putting 7-inch layers in front part of oven. Bake 7-inch layers 25 to 30 minutes and 9-inch layers 35 to 40 minutes, or until a tester comes out with crumbs adhering. Run a thin knife around edges of pans and invert cakes onto racks. Peel off paper and cool cakes completely. Cake layers may be made 2 days ahead and kept at cool room temperature, wrapped well in plastic wrap, or 2 weeks ahead and frozen, wrapped well in plastic wrap and foil. Defrost cake layers (without unwrapping) at room temperature.
In a small saucepan bring cream just to a boil. Remove pan from heat and add chocolate, butter, zest, and liqueur. Let ganache stand 3 minutes and whisk until chocolate is melted. Chill ganache just until cool, about 40 minutes.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat ganache just until light and fluffy before using (do not overbeat or it will become grainy).
Put one 9-inch layer on 8-inch cardboard round and spread evenly with 2 cups ganache. Top with remaining 9-inch layer and gently press layers together to form an even tier. Put one 7-inch layer on 6-inch cardboard round and top with remaining ganache and remaining 7-inch layer in same manner.
Frost top and sides of 9-inch tier with some buttercream and chill while frosting 7-inch tier. Chill both tiers until buttercream is firm.
Cut straws in half and insert 1 straw piece all the way into center of 9-inch tier. Trim straw flush with top of tier and insert remaining 5 straw pieces in same manner in a circle about 1 1/2 inches from center straw. Center 7-inch tier (still on cardboard) on top of 9-inch tier. Fill in any gaps between tiers with buttercream and transfer cake to a cake stand or platter. Chill cake at least 6 hours and up to 1 day.
Arrange fraises des bois and roses decoratively on top and around sides of cake. Let cake stand at cool room temperature (buttercream is sensitive to warm temperatures) 2 to 4 hours before serving. Serves about 30 (including top tier).
In a small heavy saucepan whisk together yolks and sugar and whisk in orange juice, butter, and a pinch salt. Cook mixture over moderately low heat, whisking, until it just reaches boiling point, 5 to 7 minutes (do not let boil), and strain through a fine sieve into a bowl. Whisk in lemon juice and cool curd, its surface covered with plastic wrap. Chill orange curd, covered, until cold, at least 4 hours, and up to 2 days.
In a heavy saucepan bring sugar and water to a boil, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Boil syrup, undisturbed, until it registers 248 degrees  F. on a candy thermometer. While syrup is boiling, in large bowl of a standing electric mixer beat whites with a pinch salt until foamy and beat in cream of tartar. Beat whites until they just hold stiff peaks and beat in hot syrup in a stream (try to avoid beaters and side of bowl). Beat mixture at medium speed until completely cool, 15 to 20 minutes. Beat in butter, 1 piece at a time, and beat until thickened and smooth. (Buttercream will at first appear very thin and at some point look like it is breaking but, as more butter is beaten in, it will thicken and become glossy and smooth.) Beat in orange curd, salt, and zest until smooth. Buttercream may be made 4 days ahead and chilled in an airtight container or 2 weeks ahead and frozen in an airtight container. Bring buttercream completely to room temperature (this may take several hours if frozen) and beat before using. (If buttercream is too cold when beaten it will not be glossy and smooth.) Makes about 8 cups.

Valrhona Chocolate Cherry Cake 
1 cup dried sour cherries (about 5 ounces)
1/4 cup brandy
12 ounces fine-quality semisweet chocolate (preferable Valrhona), chopped
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter
6 large eggs, separated
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons fine-quality unsweetened cocoa powder, sifted

In a bowl macerate cherries in brandy, stirring occasionally, 2 hours, or until brandy is almost absorbed.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.. Line bottom of a buttered 10-by-2 inch round cake pan with wax paper or parchment paper and butter paper.
In a double boiler or in a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water melt chocolate and butter, stirring occasionally. Remove top of double boiler or bowl from heat and cool mixture.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat yolks and 1/2 cup sugar until light and fluffy. Add chocolate mixture and stir until combined. Fold in cocoa powder until combined well (be careful not to overmix).
In another bowl with cleaned beaters beat whites until they hold soft peaks and beat in remaining sugar in a slow stream, beating until meringue just holds stiff peaks. Stir about one fourth meringue into chocolate mixture to lighten and fold in remaining meringue gently but thoroughly. Fold in cherries.
Transfer batter to pan, smoothing top, and bake cake in middle of over 40 minutes, or until center is just set. Cool cake in pan on a rack 15 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge of pan an invert cake onto rack to cool completely.

Mango-Orange Mousse Cake 
1/2 cup sifted cake flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
2 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
1/2 cup sugar
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1/4 cup orange liqueur
1 package unflavored gelatin
2 1/2 pounds large ripe mangoes, peeled, pitted, chopped
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1 tablespoon powdered sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons orange liqueur
1 1/2 cups sliced almonds, toasted
1 ripe mango, peeled, pitted, sliced

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 400 degrees F. Butter 2 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of cake pans with waxed paper. Butter paper and dust lightly with flour.
Sift flour and baking powder into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat eggs and yolks in large bowl until frothy. Gradually add 1/2 cup sugar and beat until pale yellow and slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are lifted, about 4 minutes. Fold in flour mixture. Fold 1 heaping tablespoon batter into melted butter. Fold butter mixture back into batter. Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake until cakes are just golden brown around edges and toothpick inserted into centers comes out clean, about 10 minutes. Cool cakes completely in pans on rack.
Pour liqueur into small bowl; sprinkle gelatin over. Let gelatin soften 10 minutes. Puree mangoes in processor. Measure puree and return 2 1/2 cups to work bowl of processor (reserve remainder for garnish). Add sugar to mango puree in processor and blend well. Set bowl of gelatin in saucepan of simmering water. Stir until gelatin dissolves. Add gelatin mixture to mango in processor and blend. Whip cream in large bowl to soft peaks. Fold in mango mixture.
Transfer 1 cake layer to 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Spread mango mousse over cake. Place second cake layer atop mousse. Press lightly. Wrap tightly with plastic and refrigerate at least 4 hours. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.)
Whip cream until soft peaks form. Add sugar and liqueur and beat until firm peaks form.
Release pan sides. Transfer cake to platter. Frost top and sides of cake with whipped cream mixture. Press almonds onto sides. Garnish top with mango slices. Brush mango with reserved puree.

Santori 
3 cups sugar
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 1/4 teaspoons salt
3/4 cup vegetable oil
3 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
4 large Granny Smith apples
1 1/2 cups walnuts
3 cups all-purpose flour
Accompaniment: vanilla ice cream or whipped cream

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. and butter a 13- by 9- by 2-inch glass baking dish. Into a large bowl sift together sugar, baking soda, cinnamon, and salt and whisk in oil, eggs, and vanilla until smooth. Peel and core apples and slice about 1/4 inch thick (there should be about 6 cups). Coarsely chop walnuts. Add apples and walnuts to batter and stir until coated well. Stir in flour just until combined well and spread batter evenly in baking dish.
Bake cake in middle of oven 1 hour and 40 to 50 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean, and cool completely in baking dish on a rack. Cake keeps, wrapped in plastic wrap and chilled, 1 week.
Cut apple walnut cake into squares and serve at room temperature with ice cream or whipped cream.

Lemon Almond Madeleines 
4 large eggs
2/3 cup granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1 1/2 teaspoons freshly grated lemon zest
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup almonds with the skins, toasted lightly, cooled, and ground coarse
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled slightly
confectioners' sugar for dusting the madeleines

In a bowl with an electric mixer beat the eggs with the granulated sugar until the mixture is thick and pale and forms a ribbon when the beaters are lifted and beat in the almond extract and the zest. Sift the flour in 4 batches over the mixture, folding it in gently after each addition, add the almonds and the butter, and fold them in gently but thoroughly. Spoon the batter into twenty-four 3- by 2-inch buttered madeleine molds and bake the madeleines in the lower third of a preheated 375 degrees F oven for 10 minutes, or until the edges are golden. Turn the madeleine out on racks, let them cool, and sift the confectioners' sugar over them.

Applesauce Cake with Penuche Frosting 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 3/4 cups pink applesauce or bottled applesauce
3 pounds McIntosh apples (about 8), cored and quartered
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice
1/2 cup sugar
1 large egg
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup old-fashioned rolled oats
3/4 cup raisins, chopped and tossed in all-purpose flour to coat them
3 cups firmly packed light brown sugar
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter
3/4 cup milk

In a large bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter, add the sugars, a little at a time, and beat the mixture until it is light and fluffy. Beat in the applesauce and the egg. Into the butter mixture sift together the flour, the baking soda, the cinnamon, the nutmeg, and the cloves, stir the mixture until it is combined, and add the vanilla, the oats, and the coated raisins. Stir the batter until it is combined well, divide it between 2 well-buttered 8-inch round cake pans, and bake the cake layers in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Turn the layers out onto racks and let them cool completely.
In a heavy saucepan combine the brown sugar, the butter, the milk, and a pinch of salt, bring the mixture to a boil over moderate heat, stirring until the sugar is dissolved, and cook it, undisturbed, until it registers 234 degrees F. on a candy thermometer. Let the mixture cool to room temperature and whisk it until it is thickened, lightened in color, and beginning to lose its sheen.
Working quickly, before the frosting begins to harden and crystallize, frost the top of 1 of the cake layers, top it with the other layer, and frost the top and side of the cake. (If the frosting becomes too hard to spread, reheat it over low heat, stirring, until it is of spreading consistency and let it cool.)
In a large heavy saucepan combine the apples, 1/2 cup water, the lemon juice, and the sugar, bring the liquid to a boil, and simmer the mixture, stirring occasionally, for 25 minutes, or until the apples are very tender. Force the mixture through a food mill fitted with the fine disk into a bowl. Serve the applesauce warm or chilled. Makes about 4 cups.

Brown Sugar Ginger Crisps 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter at room temperature
1 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup finely chopped crystallized ginger (about 3 ounces)
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt

In bowl cream together the butter and the brown sugar and beat in the egg yolk, the vanilla, the crystallized ginger, and the ground ginger. Into the bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, and the salt and combine the batter well. Drop teaspoons of the batter about 3 inches apart onto ungreased baking sheets and bake the cookies in batches in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 10 to 12 minutes, or until they are just golden. Let the cookies cool on the sheets for 5 minutes, transfer them carefully with a metal spatula to racks, and let them cool completely.

Souvaroffs 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup confectioners' sugar
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into bits
1 large egg yolk
2 tablespoons ice water
1/2 teaspoon light rum or vanilla extract
2/3 cup strained jam, such as apricot, raspberry, and strawberry

Into a bowl sift together the flour and the confectioners' sugar, add the butter, and blend the mixture until it resembles meal. In a small bowl whisk together the egg yolk, the ice water, and the rum, add the mixture to the flour mixture, and combine the mixture until it forms a dough. On a work surface knead the dough with the heel of a hand for a few seconds to distribute the fat evenly and form it into a ball. Dust the dough with flour and chill it, wrapped in wax paper, for 30 minutes.
Halve the dough, on a floured surface roll out 1 of the halves 1/8 inch thick, and cut it into rounds with a 1 1/2-inch scalloped cutter. Gather the scraps together, reroll them, and cut out more rounds. Roll out the remaining half of the dough 1/8 inch thick and cut out more rounds in the same manner. Cut out the centers of half the rounds with a 1/2-inch plain round cutter to form rings. Bake the rounds and rings in batches on greased baking sheets in the middle of a preheated 325 degrees F. oven for 12 minutes, or until they are faintly golden. Transfer the cookies with a metal spatula to racks and let them cool.
Spread the bottom of each round lightly with some of the jam and top it with one of the rings. Drop a scant 1/4 teaspoon of the remaining jam in the center of each cookie and let the cookies stand on the racks for 1 hour.

Orange-Scented Chocolate Almond Cake Kirkgaard 
3 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
3/4 cup well-chilled heavy cream
2 slices homemade-type whole-wheat bread
3 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup blanched whole almonds, toasted, cooled completely, and ground fine
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (Dutch-process)
2/3 cup sugar
4 large eggs, separated
1 tablespoon freshly grated orange zest
6 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
1/3 cup well-chilled heavy cream
1/2 teaspoon brandy

In a double boiler or metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water combine chocolate and cream, stirring frequently until melted and smooth. Remove double boiler or bowl from heat and cool mixture. Chill filling 1 hour. Filling may be prepared up to this point 1 day ahead and chilled, covered.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees  F. Line a buttered 8-inch round cake pan with wax paper and butter paper. Dust pan with flour, knocking out excess flour.
On a baking sheet bake bread in oven until dry, about 5 minutes, and cool bread. In a food processor grind bread fine.
In a double boiler or metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water melt chocolate and 1/2 stick butter, stirring occasionally until smooth, and remove double boiler or bowl from heat. In a bowl whisk together bread crumbs, ground almonds, and cocoa powder.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together remaining 1/2 stick butter and 1/3 cup sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in yolks, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in chocolate mixture, zest, and bread crumb mixture until batter is smooth.
In another large bowl with cleaned beaters beat whites on low speed until frothy. Increase speed to medium and beat until they just hold soft peaks. Gradually add remaining 1/3 cup sugar and beat on high speed until stiff and glossy. Stir one fourth meringue into batter to lighten and fold in remaining meringue gently but thoroughly. Pour batter into pan, smoothing top, and bake in middle of oven 45 to 50 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Cool cake in pan on a rack 5 minutes and invert cake onto rack to cool completely.
In cleaned bowl with cleaned beaters beat filling until light and creamy, about 2 minutes.
In a double boiler or metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water combine glaze ingredients, stirring until smooth.
Cut cake in half horizontally. On a cake plate spread filling between layers. Spread glaze over cake. Chill cake at least 1 hour and up to 4 before serving.

Chocolate-Glazed Coconut-Almond Cake 
1 1/4 cups sugar
3 1/2 ounces almond paste, broken into pieces
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon imitation coconut extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup milk
1 cup sweetened shredded coconut
1/2 cup canned cream of coconut (such as Coco Lopez)
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
3 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt), chopped
2 tablespoons cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup sweetened shredded coconut
1 cup whipping cream
3 tablespoons light corn syrup
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
Sliced almonds, toasted

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Using electric mixer, beat 1 cup sugar, almond paste and butter in large bowl to blend. Add yolks, extract and salt and beat 1 minute. On low speed, beat in flour alternately with milk in 3 additions each. Mix in coconut. Using electric mixer fitted with clean dry beaters, beat whites in large bowl to soft peaks. Gradually beat in remaining 1/4 cup sugar and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into batter.
Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool cake in pan on rack 20 minutes. Run small sharp knife around sides to loosen cake. Turn out cake onto rack; cool completely.
Bring cream of coconut and butter to simmer in heavy medium saucepan over low heat. Add white chocolate; stir until melted. Pour into bowl and cool. Add cream cheese and beat until smooth. Mix in coconut. Chill until spreadable, about 30 minutes.
Bring 3/4 cup cream and corn syrup to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Add chocolate and stir until melted and smooth. Cool until just pourable, about 15 minutes.
Using serrated knife, cut cake horizontally in half. Place 1 cake layer cut side up on plate. Spread filling over. Top with second cake layer cut side down. Pour half of glaze over top of cake, spreading with spatula to cover sides and smooth top (reserve remaining glaze for sauce). Press almonds around sides and in 1-inch border around top edge of cake. Refrigerate cake until glaze sets, about 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover cake with cake dome; chill. Chill remaining glaze. Let cake stand 2 hours at room temperature before continuing.)
Mix reserved glaze and remaining 1/4 cup cream in saucepan. Stir over low heat until sauce is heated through. Slice cake; serve with sauce.

Banana Walnut Upside-Down Cakes 
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
2 tablespoons firmly packed brown sugar
2 tablespoons lightly toasted chopped walnuts
1 banana
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/8 teaspoon ground cardamom
3 tablespoons granulated sugar
1 large egg
1/4 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
In a small saucepan, melt 2 tablespoons butter and divide between two 1-cup ramekins. Sprinkle brown sugar and walnuts over butter. Cut banana into 1/4-inch-thick slices and arrange over walnuts, overlapping and pressing lightly to fit.
In a small bowl, whisk together flour, baking powder, cardamom, and a pinch salt. In a bowl with an electric mixer, beat together remaining tablespoon butter and granulated sugar until combined well. Beat in egg and vanilla until combined and beat in flour mixture until batter is just combined. Divide batter between ramekins and bake on a baking sheet in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Run a sharp knife around edges of ramekins and invert cakes onto plates.

Irish Lace Cookies 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups old-fashioned rolled oats

In a bowl cream the butter with the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy and beat in the flour, the milk, and the vanilla. Stir in the oats, drop rounded teaspoons of the dough about 3 inches apart onto ungreased baking sheets, and bake the cookies in batches in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 10 to 12 minutes, or until they are golden. Let the cookies stand on the sheets for 1 minute, or until they are just firm enough to be moved with a metal spatula. (If desired, turn the cookies upside down on the sheets and, working quickly, roll them into cylinders on the sheets. If the cookies become too hard to roll, return them to the oven for a few seconds and let them soften.) Transfer the cookies to a rack and let them cool completely.

Chocolate Chip'wiches 
1 cup all purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
2 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup walnuts
2 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped, or 1/3 cup mini chocolate chips
Sugar
1 pint ice cream of choice
3 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine first 6 ingredients in processor and blend. Add butter and vanilla. Process until mixture resembles fine meal and begins to stick together, using on/off turns. Add walnuts and process until finely chopped. Mix in chocolate.
Transfer mixture to sheet of waxed paper. Press together. Top with another sheet of waxed paper. Roll out 1/4 inch thick. Cut out cookies using 2 1/2-inch round cookie cutter. Transfer to ungreased cookie sheet. Gather scraps, reroll and cut additional cookies. Sprinkle cookies with sugar. Bake until just beginning to color, about 22 minutes. Cool on cookie sheet on rack 5 minutes. Carefully transfer cookies to rack and cool. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)
Soften ice cream slightly in refrigerator. Turn 8 cookies over and gently spread 1/4 cup ice cream atop each. Top with 8 cookies, sugared side up. Freeze until firm.
Melt 3 ounces semisweet chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring until smooth. Dip fork in chocolate and drizzle in free-form lines over top of sandwiches. Freeze until chocolate design is firm. (Can be prepared up to 3 days ahead. Cover and freeze.) Soften slightly in refrigerator before serving if frozen very solid.

Maple Leaf Butter Cookies 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup Grade B maple syrup (or Grade A maple syrup flavored with 3 drops maple extract, or to taste)
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon salt
3 cups all-purpose flour

In a standing electric mixer cream together butter and sugar until light and fluffy and beat in maple syrup and egg yolk until mixture is combined well. Sift together salt and flour over mixture and fold in thoroughly. Chill dough, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, about 2 hours. Dough may be made 4 days ahead and chilled.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Divide dough in half. Keeping one half chilled, lightly flour other half and on a lightly floured surface gently pound with a rolling pin to soften. Roll out dough 1/8 inch thick and with a 3-inch floured maple-leaf cookie cutter cut out cookies, chilling scraps. Arrange cookies on buttered baking sheets and if desired, with back of a knife, mark cookies decoratively. Make more cookies in same manner with remaining dough and with all the scraps pressed together.
Bake cookies in batches in middle of oven until edges are golden, about 12 minutes, and transfer to racks to cool. Cookies keep in airtight containers 1 week.

Batey's Cinnamon Bars 
2 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 large egg, separated
2 tablespoons cinnamon
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 cup finely chopped pecans

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. and grease a 15 1/2- by 10 1/2-inch jelly-roll pan.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat butter and sugar until light and fluffy and beat in yolk. Add cinnamon and flour and beat until combined well. Spread dough evenly in pan. In a small bowl lightly beat white and brush dough with enough white to coat completely. Sprinkle pecans over top and gently press them into dough. Bake dough in middle of oven 25 minutes, or until golden brown. While confection is still warm, cut into bars, each about 2 1/2 by 1 1/2 inches, and cool completely in pan on rack.

Anise Cookie Baskets with Riesling Ice Cream and Fresh Fruit 
1 1/2 cups cream
1/2 cup half and half
2/3 cup sugar
4 large egg yolks
1 cup late harvest Riesling wine
1/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
1 teaspoon finely chopped aniseed
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon grated orange peel
3 tablespoons egg whites
1/4 cup all purpose flour
1 1-pint basket strawberries, stemmed, quartered
1 cup small pineapple wedges
1 kiwi fruit, peeled, cut into wedges
Fresh mint leaves

Bring 1/2 cup cream and 1/2 cup half and half to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Whisk sugar and yolks in medium bowl to blend. Whisk in hot cream mixture. Return mixture to saucepan; stir over medium-low heat until custard thickens and leaves path on back of spoon when finger is drawn across, about 4 minutes, do not boil. Strain into bowl. Mix in wine and 1 cup cream. Chill custard until cold.
Process custard in ice cream maker according to manufacturer's instructions. Transfer to covered container (ice cream will be soft) and freeze. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead.)
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly butter and flour heavy large nonstick baking sheet. Whisk first 6 ingredients in medium bowl. Whisk in egg whites and flour.
Drop slightly rounded tablespoon of batter onto center of half of prepared baking sheet. Drop another slightly rounded tablespoon of batter onto center of second half of prepared baking sheet. Using back of spoon, spread each mound of batter to 6-inch round. Bake cookies until brown on edges (centers will be slightly pale), about 8 minutes.
Working quickly and using metal spatula, lift 1 cookie off sheet. Immediately turn cookie over onto inverted custard cup. Gently flatten cookie on cup bottom; crimp sides of cookie. Repeat with second cookie. Remove cookies from cups. Rinse baking sheet under cold water; wipe sheet dry. Repeat process with remaining batter, first rinsing and drying, then buttering and flouring baking sheet between batches. (Cookies can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)
Place cookie baskets on plates. Fill each with 3 small scoops of ice cream.
Top with fruit and mint leaves.

Whipped Cream Cakes with Peaches and Raspberries 
1 large whole egg
1 large egg yolk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup granulated sugar
2/3 cup well-chilled heavy cream
3/4 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
confectioners' sugar for dusting the cakes
fresh peaches, peeled and sliced, for garnish
fresh raspberries for garnish

In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together the whole egg, the yolk, the vanilla, and 1/4 cup of the granulated sugar until the mixture is thick and pale. In a bowl beat the cream with cleaned beaters, adding the remaining 1/4 cup granulated sugar, until the mixture holds soft peaks. Fold the egg mixture into the whipped cream mixture. Into another bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, and the salt and fold the flour mixture into the cream mixture.
Divide the batter among 6 buttered and floured 1/2-cup muffin tins and bake the cakes in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 18 to 20 minutes, or until they are golden. (The batter will flow over the rims slightly.) Let the cakes cool in the tins on a rack for 10 minutes and turn them out onto the rack, leaving them upside down. Dust the cakes with the confectioners' sugar and serve them with the peaches and the raspberries.

Almond Spice Cookies 
2 cups whole natural almonds
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 sticks (1 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into bits
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 whole large egg, beaten lightly
1 1/2 teaspoons freshly grated lemon zest
3 tablespoons cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
an egg wash made by beating together 2 large egg yolks
1/2 cup finely chopped blanched almonds

In a food processor pulse whole almonds with 1/2 cup sugar until ground fine. In a large bowl with a pastry blender or with your fingertips blend butter and flour until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add remaining 3/4 cup sugar, almond mixture, whole egg, zest, cinnamon, and cloves and stir until mixture forms a smooth dough. (Work dough well by hand if necessary.) Chill dough, wrapped in plastic wrap, at least 2 hours and up to 1 day.
Line baking sheets with foil.
Divide dough into 4 pieces. Lightly flour 1 piece of dough, keeping remaining dough chilled and wrapped in plastic wrap, and on a lightly floured surface roll out dough 1/4 inch thick. With a 1 1/2- to 2-inch cutter cut out cookies, chilling scraps, and arrange about 1/2 inch apart on baking sheets. Make more cookies with 3 remaining pieces of dough and scraps, pressed together, in same manner. Let cookies stand, uncovered, at room temperature at least 4 hours and up to 12.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Brush cookies lightly with egg wash and sprinkle with blanched almonds. Bake cookies in batches in lower third of oven 15 to 20 minutes, or until golden, and cool on racks. Cookies keep in an airtight container at room temperature 2 weeks.

Spice Sugar Cookies 
3/4 cup vegetable shortening at room temperature
1 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 large egg, beaten lightly
1/4 cup unsulfured molasses
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon salt
granulated sugar for dipping the balls of dough

In a bowl cream the shortening with the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy and stir in the egg and the molasses. Into another bowl sift together the flour, the baking soda, the cinnamon, the ginger, the cloves, and the salt, add the flour mixture in batches to the shortening mixture, and blend the dough well. Chill the dough, covered, for 1 hour.
Roll level tablespoons of the dough into balls, dip one side of each ball into the granulated sugar, and arrange the balls, sugared sides up, about 3 inches apart on greased baking sheets. Bake the cookies in batches in the middle of a preheated 375 degrees F. oven for 10 to 12 minutes, or until they are puffed and cracked on top. Transfer the cookies with a metal spatula to racks and let them cool.

Pumpkin Roll Cake with Cream Cheese Filling 
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Pinch of salt
3 large eggs, beaten to blend
2/3 cup canned solid pack pumpkin
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup powdered sugar
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup finely chopped walnuts
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter 13x9x5/8-inch jelly roll pan. Line pan with waxed paper; butter paper. Mix first 5 ingredients in large bowl. Mix in eggs and pumpkin. Pour batter into prepared pan, spreading evenly. Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 15 minutes.
Lay kitchen towel on work surface; dust with 2 tablespoons powdered sugar. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn out cake onto sugared towel, waxed-paper side up. Fold 1 side of towel over 1 long side of cake, then roll up cake jelly roll style. Cool cake.
Combine cream cheese, 1 cup powdered sugar, butter and vanilla in medium bowl; beat to blend. Mix in walnuts.
Unroll cake; leave on towel. Peel off paper. Spread cream cheese filling evenly over cake. Using towel as, roll up cake and place seam side down on platter. Trim ends of cake. Dust cake with powdered sugar. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
Cut cake crosswise into 1-inch-thick slices and serve.

Almond Joy Cheesecake 
1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs
1 1/2 cups sweetened flaked coconut, toasted
1/2 cup sliced almonds, toasted (about 2 ounces)
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
4 large eggs
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut, toasted
1 tablespoon coconut extract
1 cup sliced almonds, toasted
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
3/4 cup whipping cream
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract

For crust: Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Wrap outside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with foil. FInely grind cracker crumbs, coconut, almonds and sugar in processor. Add butter; process until moist crumbs form. Press mixture onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of pan. Bake crust until set and beginning to brown, about 12 minutes. Cool. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
For filling: Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until blended after each addition. Mix in coconut and extract . Fold in almonds. Transfer filling to crust. Bake until cake is puffed and no longer moves when pan is shaken, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Cool completely on rack.
For glaze: Combine 1 cup chocolate chips, cream and vanilla in small saucepan. Stir over medium-low heat until smooth. Cool until glaze begins to thicken but can still be poured, about 30 minutes. Pour glaze over cooled cake; spread evenly. Chill cake overnight.
Run small knife around sides of cake to loosen. Release pan sides.

Chocolate Crackle Cookies 
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1 large egg, beaten lightly
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar plus additional for dusting hands

In a bowl (preferably metal) stir together flour, granulated sugar, cocoa, baking powder, and salt and, using finger, blend in butter. Stir in egg until mixture is blended. Spread dough in a thin layer in bowl and freeze 10 minutes, or until firm.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. and lightly grease 2 baking sheets.
Spoon level teaspoons of dough onto a sheet of wax paper. Put 2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar in a small bowl and dust hands with additional. Roll each piece of dough into a ball and then in confectioners' sugar in bowl. Arrange balls 2 inches apart on baking sheets and bake in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching sheets halfway through baking time, 8 to 10 minutes, or until cookies are just set. Cool cookies on racks.

Spiced Pumpkin Cheesecake 
1 cup pecans (about 4 ounces)
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
2 tablespoons sugar
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1 15-ounce can solid pack pumpkin
3 large eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Blend first 3 ingredients in processor until nuts are finely chopped. Add butter; process until moist crumbs form. Press onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Bake until lightly toasted, about 10 minutes. Cool. Wrap outside of pan with double thickness of heavy-duty foil.
Using electric mixer, beat first 4 ingredients in large bowl until smooth. Add pumpkin; beat until blended. Add eggs and vanilla; beat until smooth. Transfer to crust. Set in roasting pan. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to come 1 inch up sides of springform pan.
Bake cake until top is golden and begins to crack and center is set, abut 1 hour 45 minutes. Remove from roasting pan. Cool. Chill overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover; keep chilled.)

Babas au Calvado with Glazed Apple Rings 
1 1/2 teaspoons active dry yeast
1 tablespoon sugar
1/4 cup lukewarm milk
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 large egg
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces and softened
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup sugar
1 cup water
1/3 cup Calvados
1/4 cup apple jelly
2 tablespoons Calvados
1 tablespoon sugar
glazed apple rings and crème fraîche for garnish

Butter eight 1/3-cup ring molds. In the bowl of an electric mixer proof the yeast with the sugar in the milk for 5 minutes, or until the mixture is foamy. Stir in 1/4 cup of the flour, stir the mixture until it is smooth, and let the sponge rise, covered, in a warm place for 20 minutes, or until it is double in bulk. In a small bowl whisk together lightly the egg and the salt. To the yeast mixture add the remaining 1/2 cup flour in 2 batches alternately with the egg mixture, beating well after each addition. Beat in the butter, 1 piece at a time, beating well after each addition, and the cinnamon and beat the dough, scraping down the side of the bowl, for 3 minutes. (The dough will be very soft.) Divide the dough among the prepared ring molds set in a jelly-roll pan, let the babas rise, uncovered, for 15 minutes, or until they are just even with the tops of the molds, and bake even with the tops of the molds, and bake them in the middle of preheated 375 degrees F. oven for 15 minutes, or until they are golden. Transfer the babas in the molds to a rack set over another jelly-roll pan and let them cool for 10 minutes, or until they are only warm.
In a small saucepan combine the sugar and the water, bring the mixture to a boil, stirring until the sugar is dissolved, and simmer the syrup for 3 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and stir in the Calvados.
In a small saucepan combine the jelly, the Calvados, and the sugar, bring the mixture to a boil, and simmer it, stirring, for 2 minutes.
Run a thin, sharp knife around the center and side of each mold and invert the babas onto the rack. Reserve 1/2 cup of the syrup in a measuring cup, spoon the remaining syrup, heated to warm, over the babas, reusing the syrup that drips into the pan, until it is all absorbed, and let the babas stand for 15 minutes. The babas may be prepared up to this point 1 day in advance, kept on the rack set over the jelly-roll pan, and covered with foil.
Brush the glaze, heated to warm, carefully over the babas. The babas may be glazed 1 hour in advance.
Reserve 6 to 8 small apple rings. Arrange the remaining apple rings decoratively in overlapping rings on each of 6 to 8 plates, top them with the babas, and garnish each baba with a spoonful of the creème fraîche. Fold the reserved apple rings in half and roll the halves into cones to resemble flower buds. Garnish each baba with an apple-ring  inchbud inch and drizzle some of the reserved syrup around it.

Lemon Almond Spongecake 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons double-acting baking powder
1/2 cup finely ground blanched almonds
5 large eggs, separated
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons freshly grated lemon zest
4 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon almond extract

Line a greased jelly-roll pan, 15 1/2 by 10 1/2 by 1 inches, with wax paper, grease the paper, and dust the pan with flour, knocking out the excess. Into a bowl sift together the flour, the salt, and the baking powder and whisk in the almonds. In the bowl of an electric mixer beat together the egg yolks, 3/4 cup of the sugar, and the zest until the mixture is very thick and pale, beat in the lemon juice, the vanilla, and the almond extract, and beat the mixture for 3 to 5 minutes, or until it forms a ribbon when the beater is lifted. Add the flour mixture and beat the batter until it is just combined. In another bowl with cleansed beaters beat the egg whites with a pinch of salt until they form soft peaks, beat in the remaining 1/4 cup sugar, a little at a time, and beat the whites until they form stiff peaks. Whisk one third of the whites into the batter to lighten it and fold in the remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Spread the batter evenly in the prepared pan and bake it in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 15 to 20 minutes, or until the cake is golden and a tester comes out clean. Let the cake cool in the pan for 5 minutes, invert it onto a rack, and discard the wax paper. Invert the cake onto another rack and let it stand, uncovered, overnight to dry out. Cut the cake with a serrated knife into 3/4-inch cubes.

Applesauce Coffee Cake with Crumb Topping 
1/4 cup all purpose flour
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup unsweetened applesauce
1/3 cup low-fat buttermilk
2 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon (packed) grated lemon peel
2 large egg whites

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine all ingredients in small bowl. Mash with fork until blended and coarse crumbs form. Set aside.
Spray 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 1 1/2-inch-high sides with vegetable oil spray. Sift flour, sugar, baking powder, baking soda and salt into large bowl. Whisk applesauce, buttermilk, oil, egg yolk, vanilla and lemon peel in medium bowl until well blended. Add to dry ingredients and stir just until moistened (batter will be thick). Beat egg whites in another large bowl until stiff peaks form. Whisk half of whites into batter. Fold in remaining whites.
Transfer batter to prepared pan. Sprinkle topping over batter. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool in pan. Cut into 10 wedges and serve.

Almond Macaroons 
1 cup whole almonds (preferably blanched)
2/3 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg white
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
confectioners' sugar for dusting
about 16 whole almonds

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and lightly butter a baking sheet.
In a food processor pulse 1 cup almonds with granulated sugar until ground fine. Add egg white, almond extract, and a pinch salt and pulse until combined. Roll mixture into 16 balls, about 1 inch in diameter, and arrange about 2 inches apart on baking sheet. Slightly flatten balls and dust lightly with confectioners' sugar. Gently press 1 almond into each cookie.
Bake macaroons in middle of oven 10 minutes, or until pale golden. Transfer macaroons to a rack and cool completely. Macaroons keep 4 days in an airtight container at room temperature.

Pumpkin Roll Cake with Toffee Cream Filling and Caramel Sauce 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3/4 cup cake flour
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 1/4 teaspoons ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon ground allspice
6 large eggs, separated
1/3 cup sugar
1/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2/3 cup canned solid pack pumpkin
1/8 teaspoon salt
Powdered sugar
2 tablespoons dark rum
1 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
1 cup chilled whipping cream
3 tablespoons powdered sugar
10 tablespoons plus 1/2 cup English toffee pieces (or chopped English toffee candy; about 7 ounces)
Additional powdered sugar
1 1/2 purchased caramel sauce, warmed

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Spray 15x10x1-inch baking sheet with vegetable oil spray. Sift flour, cinnamon, ginger and allspice into small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat egg yolks, 1/3 cup sugar and 1/3 cup brown sugar in large bowl until very thick, about 3 minutes. On low speed, beat in pumpkin, then dry ingredients. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites and salt in another large bowl until stiff but not dry. Fold egg whites into batter in 3 additions. Transfer to prepared pan. Bake cake until tester is inserted comes out clean, about 15 minutes.
Place smooth (not terry cloth) kitchen towel on work surface; dust generously with powdered sugar. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto kitchen towel. Fold towel over 1 long side of cake. Starting at 1 long side, roll up cake in towel. Arrange cake seam side down and cool completely, about 1 hour.
Pour 2 tablespoons rum into heavy small saucepan; sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand until gelatin softens, about 10 minutes. Stir over low heat just until gelatin dissolves. Beat chilled whipping cream and 3 tablespoons powdered sugar in large bowl until firm peaks form. Beat in gelatin mixture. Fold in 6 tablespoons English toffee pieces.
Unroll cake; sprinkle with 4 tablespoons English toffee pieces. Spread filling over. Starting at 1 long side and using kitchen towel as aid, roll up cake to enclose filling. Place cake seam side down on platter. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with foil and refrigerate.)
Trim ends of cake on slight diagonal. Dust cake with powdered sugar. Spoon some of warm sauce over top of cake. Sprinkle with 1/2 cup toffee. To serve, cut cake crosswise into 1-inch-thick slices. Pass remaining sauce.

Chocolate Espresso Cookies 
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
2 cups (12 ounces) semisweet chocolate chips
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces
3 large eggs
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 1/4 teaspoons finely ground dark-roast coffee beans, such as Italian-roast
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/3 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup walnuts

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and grease 2 large heavy baking sheets.
In a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water melt unsweetened chocolate, 1 cup chocolate chips, and butter, stirring until smooth, and remove top of double boiler or bowl from heat. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat eggs, sugar, and ground coffee on high speed until very thick and pale and mixture forms a ribbon when beaters are lifted, about 3 minutes, and beat in chocolate mixture. Into mixture sift in flour, baking powder, and salt and stir until just combined. Stir in remaining chocolate chips and walnuts.
Drop batter by heaping tablespoons about 2 inches apart onto baking sheets and bake in batched in middle of oven 8 to 10 minutes, or until puffed and cracked on top. Cool cookies in baking sheets 1 minute and transfer to racks to cool completely.

Old-Fashioned Apple Cake 
1 1/2 cups plus 2 tablespoons whole wheat flour
5 teaspoons cornstarch
2 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, diced, room temperature
4 medium Gala or Golden Delicious apples, peeled, cored, cut into 1/3-inch pieces
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon (packed) golden brown sugar
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons milk
2 teaspoons sugar
1 9-inch doily
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Sift first 5 ingredients into large bowl. Rub in butter until mixture resembles coarse meal. Mix in apples and brown sugar. Whisk eggs and milk together; stir into apple mixture (batter will be thick). Transfer to pan. Sprinkle with sugar.
Bake cake until golden and springy to touch, about 35 minutes. Cool slightly on rack. Cut around cake to loosen; remove pan sides. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cool. Wrap tightly; store at room temperature.) Place doily atop cake. Sprinkle powdered sugar over; remove doily.

Cranberry Gingerbread with Brown Sugar Whipped Cream 
3 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
3/4 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoons salt
3/4 teaspoons ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons unsulfured light molasses
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons buttermilk
2 1/2 cups cranberries, coarsely chopped in processor
1/3 cup chopped crystalized ginger
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1/3 cup chilled sour cream
1/3 cup packed dark brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Additional ground cinnamon

Preheat ovven to 350 degrees F. Grease 13x9x2-inch galss baking dish; dust with flour. Sift first eight ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add sugar and beat until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in molasses. Mix in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk, beginning and wndying with dry ingredients. Fold in cranberries and crystallized ginger.
Spread batter in prepare pan. Bake until springy to touch, about 50 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack. Serve warm or at room temperature with brown sugar cream and a sprinkling of cinnamon.
Combine all ingredients in large bowl. Beat until peaks form. (Can be prepared 4 hours ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)

Grilled Pound Cake with Sour Cherry and Pecan Ice Cream 
3/4 cup dried sour cherries (about 4 ounces)
1 cup boiling water
5 tablespoons brandy
1 1/2 pints vanilla ice cream, softened slightly
4 1/2 tablespoons coarsely chopped semisweet chocolate (about 2 1/2ounces)
1/3 cup coarsely chopped toasted pecans
1 16-ounce loaf pound cake
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted

Place cherries in medium bowl. Pour 1 cup boiling water over. Let stand until softened, about 10 minutes. Drain and pat dry. Mix cherries and 1 tablespoon brandy in small bowl.
Place ice cream in large bowl. Mix in cherries, semisweet chocolate and pecans. Cover ice cream mixture. Freeze until firm, about 2 hours.
Prepare barbecue (medium heat). Cut pound cake into sixteen 1/2-inch slices. Brush both sides of each cake slice with melted butter. Grill slices until lightly toasted, about 30 seconds per side. Place 2 cake slices on each of 8 dessert plates. Place 1 scoop ice cream atop cake slices on each plate. Drizzle 1 1/2 teaspoons brandy over each serving.

Mango-Pineapple-Lime Cheesecake with Ginger Crust 
1 1/3 cups ground gingersnaps cookies
1 3 1/2-ounce jar toasted macadamia nuts
1/4 cup packed golden brown sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons chopped crystallized ginger
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 tablespoon minced lime peel
2/3 cup sour cream
6 tablespoons fresh lime juice
4 large eggs
1 mango, peeled, pitted, sliced
3 kiwi fruit, peeled, sliced
1 small pineapple, peeled, quartered, cored, thinly sliced (leaves reserved)

Preheat oven to 350  degrees F. Generously butter 9-inch-diameter spring-form pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Finely grind first 4 ingredients in processor. Add butter; blend until crumbs are moistened. Press mixture on bottom and 1 3/4 inches up sides of pan. Bake until crust is set, about 8 minutes. Transfer to rack, cool. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, sugar and lime peel in large bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in sour cream and lime juice. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until blended.
Pour filling into crust. Bake until edges are firm but center 2 inches of cheesecake still moves slightly when pan is shaken, about 1 hour 20 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool 10 minutes. Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Cover, chill overnight.
Place mango around top edge of caked. Place kiwi, then pineapple in center. Garnish with pineapple leaves.

Macadamia Rum Baked Alaska 
2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups sugar
5 large eggs, beaten lightly
1 1/2 tablespoons dark rum
1/3 cup sugar
2/3 cup water
3 tablespoons dark rum
1 1/2 pints (3 cups) super-premium vanilla ice-cream, softened
1 cup salted macadamia nuts, chopped, toasted, and cooled
12 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 cups sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. and butter and flour a loaf pan, 9 by 5 by 3 inches, knocking out excess flour.
Onto a sheet of wax paper sift together flour, baking powder, and salt. In a bowl with an electric mixer on medium speed cream butter 1 minute and beat in sugar in a steady stream, beating until light and fluffy. Add eggs, a little at a time, beating well after each addition and scraping bowl occasionally. Beat in rum until mixture is pale and fluffy. Add flour mixture, one third at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat until batter is smooth. Spoon batter into prepared pan, smoothing top, and bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, about 1 hour and 10 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 10 minutes. Invert cake onto rack and cool completely.
In a small saucepan combine sugar and water and boil, stirring until sugar is dissolved, 2 minutes. Remove pan from heat and stir in rum. Cool syrup to room temperature.
In a metal bowl stir together ice cream and nuts and freeze until needed.
Line cleaned loaf pan with plastic wrap, leaving a 3-inch overhang on short sides. Halve cake horizontally with a serrated knife and reserve bottom half for another use. Halve remaining cake horizontally and put bottom layer in loaf pan. Brush layer in loaf pan and cut side of other layer with syrup. Working quickly, spread ice cream evenly over cake layer in loaf pan and top with remaining cake layer, rounded side up. Freeze cake, covered, until frozen hard, about 6 hours. Cake may be made 3 days ahead and kept frozen.
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer stir together egg whites, salt, and sugar. Set bowl over a saucepan of simmering water and stir mixture just until sugar is dissolved. Remove bowl from pan and with mixer beat meringue until it holds stiff, glossy peaks.
Working quickly, remove cake from pan and arrange, flat side down, on an ovenproof shallow platter. With a rubber spatula spread top and sides of cake with a generous layer of meringue, covering it completely. Transfer remaining meringue to a pastry bag fitted with a large star tip and pipe it generously on and around dessert. Bake dessert in middle of oven 4 to 5 minutes, or until meringue is golden brown. Serve immediately.

Mocha Crunch Ice Cream Cake 
1 1/2 cups water
1/2 cup sugar
2 1/2 tablespoons instant espresso powder
12 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter
3 cups macaroon cookie crumbs (about 21 Mother's brand cookies)
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
2 pints chocolate ice cream
2 pints coffee ice cream
3/4 cup chopped Almond Roca or Heath bars (about 14 Almond Roca or 12 miniature Heath bars, about 5 ounces)

For sauce: Cook water, sugar and espresso in heavy medium saucepan over low heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Add chocolate and butter. Stir until chocolate and butter are melted and sauce is smooth. Cool completely. (Sauce can be prepared 3 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Bring sauce to room temperature before using.)
For crust: Oil 9-inch springform pan. Mix 2 cups crumbs and butter in medium bowl. Press firmly into bottom of prepared pan. Freeze until firm.
For filling: Soften chocolate ice cream in refrigerator until spreadable but not melted. Spread in pan and smooth top. Freeze until firm.
Spoon 1/2 cup sauce over ice cream and sprinkle with remaining 1 cup cookie crumbs. Freeze until firm.
Soften coffee ice cream in refrigerator until spreadable but not melted. Spread in pan. Smooth surface and freeze until firm. Spread 1/2 cup sauce over coffee ice cream. Sprinkle with Almond Roca and freeze until firm. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Cover tightly.)
Soften cake slightly in refrigerator if necessary. Rewarm remaining sauce over low heat until lukewarm, stirring frequently. Remove pan sides. Cut cake into wedges. Serve, passing warm mocha sauce separately.

Easy Vanilla Wafers 
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/3 cup Vanilla Sugar
1/4 cup egg whites
1/3 cup unbleached all purpose flour
Pinch of salt
2 cups sugar
1 vanilla bean, cut into small pieces
Use this sugar to add a fresh-tasting vanilla flavor to all your favorite recipes. It's especially good when used to sweeten whipped cream.

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Generously butter heavy large cookie sheets. Beat 1/4 cup butter and sugar in medium bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in egg whites. Gradually mix in flour and salt (batter will be soft.) Drop batter by level teaspoonfuls onto prepared cookie sheets, spacing 3 inches apart. Bake until edges are golden brown and centers of cookies are still pale, about 7 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Store in airtight container.)
Process sugar and vanilla bean in processor until vanilla bean is very finely minced. Strain sugar to remove any large pieces of vanilla bean. Store sugar in airtight container. Makes 2 cups.

Pineapple Ice-Cream Cake with Coconut Topping 
about eight 3- by 2- by 1/2-inch pieces of pound cake
1 1/2 cups chopped fresh pineapple
3/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon cornstarch
3 large egg yolks
1 large whole egg
1 1/2 cups milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 cups well-chilled heavy cream
2/3 cup well-chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons sour cream
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut, toasted lightly and cooled
1/4 cup sweetened flaked coconut, toasted lightly and cooled

In the bottom of an 8 1/2-inch springform pan arrange the cake, cutting the pieces to fit in one layer, and freeze it while making the ice cream.
In a heavy saucepan combine pineapple and 1/4 cup of the sugar and simmer the mixture, stirring until the sugar is dissolved, for 5 minutes. Drain the pineapple mixture in a fine sieve set over a bowl, reserving the syrup for another use. In a bowl whisk together the remaining 1/2 cup sugar, the cornstarch, a pinch of salt, the yolks, and the whole egg and add the milk, scalded, in a stream, whisking. In a heavy saucepan bring the custard to a boil over moderate heat, whisking, boil it, whisking, for 2 minutes, and strain it through a fine sieve into a metal bowl set in a larger bowl of ice and cold water. Stir in the pineapple mixture and vanilla, let the custard cool, stirring, and stir in the cream. Freeze the custard in an ice-cream freezer according to the manufacturer's instructions until it is frozen but still soft.
Spoon the ice cream over the cake, spreading it evenly, and freeze the cake while making the topping.
In a bowl beat the cream until it holds soft peaks and beat in the sugar and sour cream. Beat the mixture until it just holds stiff peaks and fold in the coconut gently but thoroughly.
Spoon the topping over the ice cream, spreading it evenly, and freeze the cake, its surface covered with plastic wrap, overnight. Let the cake stand at room temperature for 10 minutes, remove the side of the pan, and transfer the cake to a serving plate. Sprinkle the coconut on top and serve the cake into wedges.

Bananas Foster Cheesecake 
3/4 cup all purpose flour
3/4 cup finely chopped pecans
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
3 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons (packed) golden brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 8-ounce packages Neufchâtel cheese (reduced-fat cream cheese), room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 tablespoons cornstarch
3 large eggs
2 cups puréed bananas (from about 4 bananas)
1 cup low-fat sour cream
1 1/2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Pinch of salt
1 cup low-fat sour cream
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 17-ounce jar caramel sauce
2 tablespoons dark rum
2 bananas, peeled, sliced

Position rack in center of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Wrap outside of 9-inch diameter springform pan with 3-inch -high sides with heavy-duty foil. Combine flour, pecans, butter, sugar, brown sugar and vanilla in large bowl. Mix well. Press mixture onto bottom of prepared pan.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until smooth. Gradually beat in sugar. Beat in cornstarch. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating until just blended after each addition. Add puréed banana, sour cream, lemon juice, vanilla, cinnamon and salt. Beat just until combined.
Transfer filling to crust-lined pan. Place pan in large roasting pan. Add enough hot water to roasting pan to come 1 inch up sides of springform pan. Bake until center of cake is just set, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Remove cake from oven. Maintain oven temperature.
Mix together sour cream, sugar and vanilla in small bowl until well blended. Spread topping over cheesecake. Bake until topping is set, about 10 minutes. Turn off oven. Let cake stand in oven until cooled to room temperature, about 2 hours. Refrigerate cake until well chilled. Cover and refrigerate overnight.
Cut around cake to loosen; remove pan sides. Transfer cake to platter. Warm caramel sauce in small saucepan over low heat, stirring often. Mix in rum. Drizzle some sauce decoratively over cake. Arrange bananas top cake.
Cut cake into wedges. Serve, passing remaining sauce separately.

Caramel Apple Shortcakes 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons sugar plus additional for sprinkling the shortcakes
1 tablespoon double-acting baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons freshly grated lemon zest
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream plus additional cream or milk for brushing the shortcakes
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
3/4 cup heavy cream, heated
5 tart cooking apples such as Granny Smith (about 2 pounds)
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter

Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Into a bowl sift together the flour, 3 tablespoons of sugar, the baking powder, and a pinch of salt and stir in zest. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat 1 cup of the cream with the vanilla until it just holds soft peaks. Make a well in the center of the flour mixture, add the whipped cream, and with a fork combine the mixture until it just forms a dough. On a lightly floured surface knead the dough 6 times, or until it is just combined well, roll or pat it out 1/2 inch thick, and with a floured 4-inch cutter cut out a total of 6 rounds, gathering and rerolling the scraps. Brush the rounds with the additional cream or the milk and sprinkle them with the additional sugar. Bake the shortcakes on a greased baking sheet in the middle of the oven for 12 to 15 minutes, or until they are golden, transfer them with a spatula to a rack, and let them cool.
In a dry heavy skillet cook 1/2 cup of the sugar over moderate heat, undisturbed, until it begins to melt and cook the sugar, stirring with a fork, until it is melted completely and turns a golden caramel. Remove the skillet from the heat and whisk in the cream carefully. Return the skillet to the heat and whisk the caramel sauce until it is smooth. In a large heavy skillet cook the apples, each peeled, cored, and cut into 8 slices, in the butter over moderately high heat, stirring, until they are browned lightly, add the remaining 1 tablespoon sugar, and cook the apples until they are soft and caramelized. Add the sauce to the apples and stir the mixture carefully.
Break each shortcake in half, arrange 2 halves on each of 6 dessert plates, and spoon the apples over them.

Chocolate-Chunk Chocolate Cake 
2 tablespoons warm water
1 tablespoon instant coffee crystals
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 large eggs, room temperature
2/3 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 3.52-ounce milk chocolate Toblerone bars, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan; dust with flour Stir 2 tablespoons water and coffee in small bowl until coffee dissolves; set aside.
sift flour, cocoa, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add 1 1/2 cups sugar, beating until well blended. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time. Add coffee mixture, sour cream and vanilla extract and beat to blend. Stir in flour mixture. Fold in half of chocolate pieces.Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Transfer cake to rack; sprinkle remaining chocolate pieces over hoe cake. Cool 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake; release pan sides. Cool cake completely.
Sift powdered sugar over cake. Cut into wedges and serve.

Banana Coffee Cake Diamond 
1 1/4 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 very ripe bananas, mashed
1/2 cup sour cream
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup granulated sugar
1/2 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
2 extra-large eggs
1 tablespoon coffee extract, or 1 tablespoon instant espresso powder dissolved in 1 tablespoon hot water
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Garnish: confectioners' sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and grease and flour a 10-inch (3-quart) bundt pan, knocking out excess flour.
Into a large bowl sift together flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt. In a small bowl stir together bananas and sour cream. In another large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugars until light and fluffy and add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in coffee extract (or espresso) and vanilla. Beat in flour mixture in batches alternately with banana mixture, beginning and ending with flour mixture, until batter is just combined.
Spoon batter into pan and bake in middle of oven 50 minutes, or until a cake tester comes out clean and cake pulls away from side of pan. Cool cake in pan 10 minutes and invert onto a rack to cool completely. Let cake stand, wrapped tightly, at room temperature overnight.
Dust cake with confectioners' sugar.

Individual Orange and Poppy Seed Pound Cakes 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cup sugar
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
5 large eggs
1/3 cup orange juice
1 tablespoon grated orange peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup poppy seeds

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour four 5 3/8 x 3 1/4 x 1 7/8-inch loaf pans. Sift flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and unsalted butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in orange juice, grated orange peel and vanilla extract (batter may look curdled). Beat in flour mixture. Fold in poppy seeds.
Divide batter equally among prepared pans (about 1 1/2 cups each). Place pans in oven. Bake until tops of cakes are brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Transfer pans to rack. Cool cakes 10 minutes. Cut around sides of pans to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto wire racks and cool completely. (Cakes can be prepared up to 1 week ahead. Wrap in aluminum foil; store cakes at room temperature.)

Triple-Chocolate Layer Cake 
1/2 cup cold buttermilk
1 tablespoon instant espresso powder
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 cup cake flour
6 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder (preferably Dutch-process)
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
3 large eggs
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Baker's of Lindt), finely chopped
4ounces imported milk chocolate, finely chopped
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon chilled whipping cream
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
White and milk chocolate shavings (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter three 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of and with parchment paper. Stir buttermilk, espresso power and vanilla in small bowl until powder dissolves.
Sift sugar and next 5 ingredients into large bowl. Add eggs and butter; beat until mixture is thick and smooth, about 1 1/2 minutes. Add buttermilk mixture; beat until light and fluffy,about 1 1/2 minutes linger. Divide batter among pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 5 minutes. Turn cake out onto racks. Peel off parchment; cool completely.
Place white chocolate and milk chocolate in separate medium bowls. Bring 1 cup cream to boil in heavy medium saucepan. Pour 3 tablespoons hot cream into white chocolate and 3 tablespoons hot cream into milk chocolate. Add bittersweet chocolate to remaining cream in saucepan; stir until smooth. Stir white chocolate and milk chocolate fillings until smooth; chill until cold but not firm, about 15 minutes. Set aside bittersweet chocolate frosting.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Using handheld mixer, beat white chocolate filling until slightly stiff. Spread over cake layer. Top with second cake layer. Add remaining 1 tablespoon cream to milk chocolate filling and beat until smooth. Spread over second cake layer. Top with third cake layer. Chill cake until bittersweet chocolate frosting is firm enough to spread, about 30 minutes.
Stir frosting until smooth. Spread very thin layer over top and sides of cake to smooth surface and anchor crumbs. Chill 30 minutes. Spread remaining frosting decoratively over cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and chill.)
Garnish cake with chocolate shavings, if desired,and serve.

Meringue-Crusted Chocolate Cake 
1 2/3 cups cake flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/3 cups plus 3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs, separated
1 large egg
1 cup buttermilk
1 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips (about 6 ounces)

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Generously butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides; dust with flour. Sift first 4 ingredients into small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat 1 1/3 cups sugar, butter, 3 yolks and 1 whole egg in large bowl until blended. Beat in flour mixture alternately with buttermilk in 3 additions each. Mix in chocolate chips.
Using clean dry beaters, beat 3 egg whites in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 3/4 cup sugar, beating until stiff glossy peaks form, about 5 minutes. Spread 2/3 of meringue halfway up sides (not on bottom) of prepared pan. Spoon batter into meringue-lined pan; top with remaining meringue. Using tip of knife, swirl top meringue and some of chocolate batter together.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out with a few crumbs attached, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Cool 10 minutes on rack. Cut around pan sides; release pan sides. Cool completely.

Aunt Tom's Italian Cream Cake 
2 cups granulated sugar
1 1/2 cups vegetable shortening, softened
1 stick (1/2 cup) margarine, softened
5 large eggs, separated
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup well-shaken buttermilk
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups sweetened flaked coconut
1 cup chopped pecans
an 8-ounce package cream cheese, softened
1 stick (1/2 cup) margarine, softened
1 teaspoon vanilla
a 1-pound box confectioners' sugar

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. and lightly butter and flour three 9- by 2-inch round cake pans, knocking out any excess flour.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together sugar, shortening, and margarine until light and fluffy. Add egg yolks, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Into another bowl sift together flour, baking soda, and salt. Beat flour mixture into egg mixture in 2 batches alternately with buttermilk, beginning and ending with flour mixture, until combined. Beat in vanilla, coconut, and chopped pecans. Beat egg whites in another bowl until they just hold stiff peaks and fold into batter gently but thoroughly.
Divide batter among pans, smoothing tops, and bake in upper two thirds of oven, switching position of pans in oven halfway through baking, until a tester comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cake layers in pans on racks 10 minutes and invert onto racks to cool completely.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together cream cheese, margarine, and vanilla until smooth. Gradually beat in confectioners' sugar, beating until creamy.
Stack cake layers on a cake plate, spreading about 1/2 cup frosting between each layer. Spread remaining frosting on top and side of cake.

Apple-Ginger Upside-Down Cake 
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
2/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
4 large Granny Smith apples (about 28 ounces), peeled, quartered, cored, cut into 1/2-inch-thick wedges
3 tablespoons minced crystallized ginger
1/3 cup minced crystallized ginger
4 tablespoons plus 1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup whole milk
1 cup chilled whipping cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Melt butter in small saucepan over medium heat. Add sugar and cook until mixture bubbles, about 3 minutes. Remove from heat. Stir in ground ginger. Pour mixture into prepared pan, spreading with spatula to distribute evenly. Tightly overlap apples atop sugar mixture, making 2 layers of apples. Sprinkle crystallized ginger atop apples. Set aside.
Mix crystallized ginger with 1 tablespoon flour in small bowl. Sift 1 1/4 cups plus 3 tablespoons flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat brown sugar and butter in large bowl until light and creamy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in vanilla. Mix in sifted dry ingredients alternately with milk. Stir in ginger mixture. Spoon batter atop apples in pan. Bake cake until brown on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool cake in pan on rack 15 minutes.
Whip cream, 2 tablespoons sugar and ground ginger in another medium bowl to soft peaks.
Run small knife around edges of pan to loosen cake. Place platter over cake and invert cake onto platter. Serve warm or at room temperature with cream. (Can be made 6 hours ahead. Cover cake; let stand at room temperature. Cover and chill cream.)

Spice Cookies with Raisins and Walnuts 
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup milk
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/3 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon allspice
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup chopped raisins
1 cup chopped walnuts (about 4 1/2 ounces)

Beat butter and both sugars in large bowl until creamy. Beat in milk, egg and vanilla. Stir flour, baking powder, cinnamon, allspice, cloves and salt in medium bowl. Add to butter mixture; beat to blend. Stir in raisins and walnuts. Cover dough and refrigerate until chilled, about 2 hours (dough will be sticky).
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Drop dough by rounded teaspoonfuls onto heavy large baking sheets, spacing evenly. Bake until cookies are pale golden, about 12 minutes. Transfer baking sheets to racks; cool 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks; cool. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Uncle Anthony's Cheesecake 
1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs
1 1/4 cups sugar
5 1/2 tablespoons butter, melted
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
3 large eggs, room temperature
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 pint sour cream

Position 1 rack in center of oven and second rack in lowest third of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Mix cracker crumbs, 1/4 cup sugar and butter in small bowl until well blended. Press mixture onto bottom of 9-inch springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and remaining 1 cup sugar in large bowl until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just to blend after each addition. Mix in vanilla. Fold in sour cream thoroughly. Pour batter into prepared pan. Set cheesecake pan on center rack. Fill small pan with water and place on bottom rack.
Bake cheesecake 30 minutes. Turn off heat and let stand in warm oven 1 hour; do not open oven door. Transfer to rack and cool. Cover and chill until cold. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead.)

Maple Walnut Coffeecake 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup walnuts
2/3 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup pure maple syrup
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons double-acting baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2/3 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup pure maple syrup
1 1/2 teaspoons maple extract
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 large eggs
3/4 cup sour cream
confectioners' sugar for sprinkling the coffeecake

In a food processor blend together the flour, the walnuts, the brown sugar, the butter, the cinnamon, and the salt until the nuts are ground and the mixture is crumbly, add the syrup, and pulse the motor until the mixture is combined well.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. and butter and flour lightly a 9-inch pan.
Into a bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, the baking soda, and the salt. In another bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, beat in the maple syrup, the maple extract, and the vanilla, and beat in the eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add the flour mixture to the butter mixture alternately with the sour cream, beginning and ending with the flour mixture and beating the batter after each addition until is just combined.
Spoon half the batter into the pan, spreading it evenly, sprinkle half the crumb mixture over it, and spread the remaining batter evenly over the crumb mixture. Sprinkle the remaining crumb mixture over the top and bake the cake in the middle of the oven for 50 to 60 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Let the cake cool in the pan on a rack for 5 minutes, remove the side of the pan, and transfer the cake, removing the bottom of the pan, to the rack. Let the cake cool completely and sprinkle the top with the confectioners' sugar. The coffeecake may be made 1 day in advance and kept wrapped in plastic wrap.

Old-Fashioned Peanut Butter Cookies 
3 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup creamy or chunky peanut butter (do not use old-fashioned style or freshly ground)
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Mix flour, baking powder and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter, peanut butter and vanilla in large bowl until well blended. Beat in both sugars. Scrape down sides of bowl. Stir half of dry ingredients into mixture. Add eggs 1 at a time, stirring well after each addition. Mix in remaining dry ingredients.
For each cookie, roll 1 heaping tablespoonful of dough into 1 3/4-inch-diameter ball. Arrange dough balls 2 1/2 inches apart on prepared baking sheets. Using back of fork, flatten dough balls and form crosshatch design on tops. Bake cookies until dry on top and golden brown on bottom, about 14 minutes. Cool cookies on baking sheets 5 minutes. Using metal spatula, transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. (Can be prepared up to 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Low-Fat Lime Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
2 1/4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 large egg whites
2 tablespoons fresh lime juice
1 tablespoon grated lime peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2/3 cup low-fat buttermilk

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F .Lightly spray 8 1/2 x 4 1/2 x 2-inch loaf pan with vegetable oil spray. Mix flour, baking powder and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, vegetable oil and butter in large bowl until well blended. Add egg whites 1 at a time, beating to blend after each addition. Beat in lime juice, grated lime peel and vanilla extract. Add dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk, beginning and ending with dry ingredients and beating just until combined after each addition. Transfer cake batter to prepared pan.
Bake until top of cake is golden brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Transfer pan to rack. Cool cake in pan on rack 20 minutes. Turn cake out onto rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap tightly in plastic; store at room temperature.) Cut into slices.

Chocolate Chip 'Wiches 
1 cup all purpose flour
1/3 cup sugar
2 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup walnuts
2 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped, or 1/3 cup mini chocolate chips
Sugar
1 pint ice cream of choice
3 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine first 6 ingredients in processor and blend. Add butter and vanilla. Process until mixture resembles fine meal and begins to stick together, using on/off turns. Add walnuts and process until finely chopped. Mix in chocolate.
Transfer mixture to sheet of waxed paper. Press together. Top with another sheet of waxed paper. Roll out 1/4 inch thick. Cut out cookies using 2 1/2-inch round cookie cutter. Transfer to ungreased cookie sheet. Gather scraps, reroll and cut additional cookies. Sprinkle cookies with sugar. Bake until just beginning to color, about 22 minutes. Cool on cookie sheet on rack 5 minutes. Carefully transfer cookies to rack and cool. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)
Soften ice cream slightly in refrigerator. Turn 8 cookies over and gently spread 1/4 cup ice cream atop each. Top with 8 cookies, sugared side up. Freeze until firm.
Melt 3 ounces semisweet chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring until smooth. Dip fork in chocolate and drizzle in free-form lines over tops of sandwiches. Freeze until chocolate design is firm. (Can be prepared up to 3 days ahead. Cover and freeze.) Soften slightly in refrigerator before serving if frozen very solid.

Puff Pastry Pinwheel Cookies with Jam 
1 17 1/4-ounce package frozen puff pastry (2 sheets), thawed
1 egg, beaten to blend (glaze)
1/2 cup (about) sugar
1/2 cup (about) assorted jams (such as raspberry, apricot and kiwi)
Powdered sugar (optional)

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 heavy large baking sheets. Roll out 1 puff pastry sheet on lightly floured surface to 16x13-inch rectangle. Trim edges neatly, forming 15x12-inch rectangle. Cut rectangle into twenty 3-inch squares. Using small sharp knife, make 1-inch-long diagonal cut in all 4 corners of 1 square, cutting toward center (do not cut through center). To form pinwheels, fold every other point of puff pastry toward center of square, pressing to adhere. Repeat with remaining puff pastry squares.
Brush pinwheels lightly with egg glaze. Sprinkle each with 1/2 teaspoon sugar. Place scant 1/2 teaspoon jam in center of each. Transfer to prepared baking sheet. Bake until pinwheels are golden and puffed, about 13 minutes. Using metal spatula, transfer cookies to rack and cool. Repeat with remaining puff pastry sheet, glaze, sugar and jam.
Sprinkle cookies with powdered sugar, if desired. (Can be prepared ahead. Place cookies between waxed paper sheets in airtight containers and freeze up to 2 weeks; thaw before packing, or store airtight at room temperature up to 3 days.)

Mexican Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon ground pepper
1 12-ounce package semisweet chocolate chips

Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then vanilla. Sift next 6 ingredients over butter mixture; beat just until blended. Mix in chocolate chips. Refrigerate dough until cold, at least 1 hour and up to 1 day.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 large baking sheets. Drop dough by rounded tablespoonfuls onto sheets, spacing 1 1/2 inches apart. Bake cookies until golden brown but still soft to touch, about 10 minutes (for crisper cookies, bake 12 minutes). Let stand on sheets 3 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool.

Swedish Meringue Cake with Strawberries and Orange Filling 
1 1/2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 1/2 teaspoons double-acting baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 3/4 cups sugar
6 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup milk
1/2 cup sliced blanched almonds, ground fine in an electric coffee or spice grinder
1/2 cup sugar
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1 teaspoon freshly grated orange zest
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated lemon zest
3/4 cup fresh orange juice
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2 large egg yolks
1 1/2 pints strawberries, reserving 11 whole berries for garnish and the remaining ones chopped fine
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar

Line the bottoms of 3 buttered 9- by 2-inch cake pans with rounds of wax paper, butter the paper, and dust the pans with flour, knocking out the excess. Into a bowl sift together the flour, the baking powder, and the salt. In the bowl of an electric mixer cream together the butter and 3/4 cup of the sugar until mixture is light and fluffy, add the egg yolks, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in the vanilla. Add the flour mixture and the milk in batches, beginning and ending with the flour mixture and beating well after each addition, and divide the batter among the prepared pans, spreading and smoothing it.
In the cleaned bowl with cleaned beaters beat the egg whites with a pinch of salt until they hold soft peaks, add the remaining 1 cup sugar, a little at a time, and beat the meringue until it just holds stiff peaks. Fold in the almonds gently but thoroughly. (Do not beat in the almonds.) Spread the meringue over the batter, smoothing it, and bake the layers in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 30 to 35 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Let the layers cool in the pans on a rack. Run a knife around the edges, invert the layers onto rack, and discard the wax paper. The cake layers may be made 1 day in advance and kept wrapped in plastic wrap.
In a heavy saucepan whisk together the sugar, the cornstarch, and a pinch of salt. In a bowl whisk together the zests, the juices, and the yolks and whisk the yolk mixture into the sugar mixture until the mixture is combined well. Bring the mixture to a boil, whisking, boil it gently, whisking, for 2 minutes, and let it cool, whisking occasionally.
Arrange one of the layers, meringue side up, on a serving plate, spread half the orange filling on it, and spread half the chopped strawberries on the filling. Arrange another layer, meringue side up, on the strawberries, spread the remaining filling on it, and spread the remaining chopped strawberries on the filling. Arrange the remaining layer, meringue side up, on the strawberries. The cake may be assembled up to this point 6 hours in advance and kept covered with plastic wrap and chilled.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat the cream until it holds soft peaks, beat in the confectioners' sugar, and beat the cream until it holds stiff peaks. Transfer the cream to a pastry bag fitted with a star tip and pipe a circle of it decoratively around the top edge of the cake. Pipe another circle of cream 1 inch inside the first circle, pipe a rosette in the center, and pipe another circle of cream around the base of the cake. Quarter lengthwise 10 of the reserved strawberries, arrange them decoratively inside the concentric circles, and arrange the remaining strawberry on the rosette.

Almond Meringue Torte with Praline Buttercream 
6 large egg whites
1 cup granulated sugar
1 cup blanched whole almonds, ground fine in a food processor
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
1 cup granulated sugar
1/3 cup blanched whole almonds
1/3 cup hazelnuts
1/2 cup milk
1 cup granulated sugar
1 vanilla bean, halved lengthwise, or 1 teaspoon vanilla extract
6 large egg yolks
4 sticks (2 cups) unsalted butter, softened to cool room temperature
1/2 cup blanched whole almonds, toasted, cooled, and chopped
confectioners' sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and butter and flour two 8- or 9-inch round cake pans, knocking out excess flour.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat whites until they hold soft peaks. Add sugar in a slow stream, beating until meringue holds stiff, glossy peaks. Fold in almonds and sift flour over meringue. Fold in flour gently but thoroughly and divide meringue between cake pans, smoothing it evenly. Bake layers in middle of oven 30 to 35 minutes, or until pale golden and firm to the touch. Invert layers onto racks and cool.
Line a baking sheet with foil.
In a dry heavy saucepan cook sugar over moderate heat, stirring with a fork, until melted and cook, without stirring, swirling pan, until a golden caramel. Remove pan from heat and stir in almonds and hazelnuts. Immediately pour mixture onto baking sheet tilting baking sheet to make a thin layer and cool completely. Break praline into pieces and transfer to a plastic bag. Crush praline coarse with a rolling pin. Praline may be made 1 week ahead and kept in an airtight container at room temperature.
In a small heavy saucepan simmer milk, sugar, and vanilla bean if using, stirring, until sugar is dissolved. In a bowl whisk yolks and add milk mixture in a stream, whisking. Transfer mixture to pan and cook over low heat, stirring, until a candy thermometer registers 170 degrees F. Pour mixture through a fine sieve into another bowl and cool completely. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat butter until light and fluffy and beat in custard, a little at a time, until smooth. Beat in 1/2 cup praline (reserving remaining praline for another use) and vanilla extract if using.
Stack meringue layers, spreading some buttercream generously between them. Spread remaining buttercream on top and side of torte. Press chopped toasted almonds onto top and side of torte and sprinkle top with confectioners' sugar. Torte may be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered. Let torte stand at cool room temperature 2 hours before serving.

Gingerbread with Crystallized Ginger 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup robust (dark) molasses
1 large egg
1/2 cup pear nectar
1/4 cup chopped crystallized ginger
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 8 x 8 x 2-inch baking pan. Mix first 7 ingredients inn medium bowl. Beat butter and brown sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Add molasses and egg and beat to blend. Beat in pear nectar, then dry ingredients and chopped ginger. Transfer batter to pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Transfer pan to rack; cool cake 15 minutes. Sift powdered sugar over cake. Cut cake into 16 squares. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Cappuccino Chocolate Layer Cake 
6 tablespoons water
3 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon instant coffee powder
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons instant coffee powder
1 1/2 cups whole milk
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Fudge Frosting

Combine all ingredients in small saucepan. Stir over low heat until sugar and coffee dissolve. Let cool. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Chill.)
Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms with waxed paper; butter paper. Dust with flour. Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted. Remove from over water.
Sift flour, baking powder, cinnamon and salt into medium bowl. Stir coffee powder into milk in another medium bowl until dissolved. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Mix in melted chocolate and vanilla. Add dry ingredients alternately with milk mixture in 3 additions. Divide batter between pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely. Peel off paper.
Cut each cake horizontally in half. Using bottom of tart pan as aid, transfer 1 cake layer, cut side up, to platter. Brush cake layer with 2 tablespoons syrup. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over cake layer. Repeat layering 2 times, using 1 cake layer, 2 tablespoons syrup and 3/4 cup frosting for each layer. Top with fourth cake layer, cut side down. Spread remaining frosting over cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.)

Elodie's Chocolate Cake 
10 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
5 large eggs
1 1/4 cups sugar
5 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour 10-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Stir chocolate and butter in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Beat eggs and 1 1/4 cups sugar in large bowl until well blended and beginning to thicken. Sift flour and baking powder over eggs and fold in. Gradually fold in chocolate mixture. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake 20 minutes. Cover pan with foil. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs still attached, about 30 minutes longer. Uncover cake; cool in pan on rack (cake will fall as it cools). (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; let stand at room temperature.)
Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Sift powdered sugar over cake; cut into wedges.

Oatmeal Cinnamon Tuiles 
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 large egg white
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/4 cup old-fashioned rolled oats

Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F and butter generously 2 large baking sheets.
In a small bowl cream together with a wooden spoon butter, sugar, vanilla, cinnamon, and salt. Add egg white and whisk until smooth. Stir in flour and stir in oats thoroughly. Drop batter by rounded teaspoons 4 inches apart onto prepared baking sheets. With the back of the spoon spread batter into 2 1/2-inch rounds and bake, 1 sheet at a time, in middle of oven 4 to 6 minutes, or until edges turn golden. Immediately transfer tuiles with a metal spatula to a rolling pin and cool in curved shapes. Tuiles may be made 1 day ahead and kept in an airtight container.

Old-Fashioned Chocolate Layer Cake 
1/2 cup water
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 tablespoon instant coffee powder
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups sifted cake flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup sour cream
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
4 cups powdered sugar
1/2 cup whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour three 9-inch round cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Combine water, chocolate and coffee powder in heavy small saucepan. Stir over low heat until chocolate melts and coffee powder dissolves. Remove from heat. Cool.
Beat sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs and vanilla. Beat in chocolate mixture. Mix flour and baking soda in medium bowl. Add to butter mixture and beat just until combined. Beat in sour cream.
Divide batter among prepared pans. Bake until cakes begin to pull away from sides of pans and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Transfer pans to racks and cool 10 minutes. Using small knife, cut around sides of pans to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap tightly in plastic and store at room temperature.)
Melt butter and chocolate in small saucepan over low heat, stirring until smooth. Transfer to large bowl; cool. Add sugar, cream and vanilla; beat until smooth. If necessary, refrigerate until firm enough to spread.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 1/2 cup frosting over top. Top with another cake layer. Spread 1/2 cup frosting over top. Top with remaining cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over sides and top of cake in decorative swirls. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and store at cool room temperature.)

Cornmeal Cake with Sweet Rosemary Syrup and Blackberries 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 cup yellow cornmeal
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
2/3 cup milk
Sweet Rosemary Syrup
lightly sweetened whipped cream
2 half-pints blackberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and butter and flour an 8- by 2-inch round cake pan.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Add remaining cake ingredients and beat on low speed until combined. Beat batter on high speed until pale yellow, about 3 minutes.
Pour batter into prepared pan and bake in middle of oven 40 minutes, or until a tester comes out with a few crumbs adhering.
Make Rosemary Syrup while cake is baking.
Cool cake in pan on a rack 10 minutes. Invert cake onto hand and return, right side up, to rack. While cake is still warm, gradually brush 1/3 cup syrup over it, allowing syrup to soak in before adding more. Chill remaining syrup in a small pitcher, covered. Syrup-soaked cake may be made 1 day ahead and kept wrapped in plastic wrap at room temperature.
Serve cake, cut into wedges, with whipped cream, blackberries, and remaining rosemary syrup.

Banana Layer Cake 
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup mashed ripe bananas
1/2 cup vegetable oil
2 large eggs
1/4 cup buttermilk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
16 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
Fresh banana slices (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides; dust pans with flour. Combine 1 1/2 cups sugar, mashed bananas, oil, eggs, buttermilk and vanilla in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat until mixture is well blended. Sift flour, baking soda and salt into banana mixture; beat until well blended. Divide batter equally between prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Cut around cakes to loosen; turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely.
Beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until smooth. Add powdered sugar and blend well.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 2/3 cups frosting over. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over sides and top of cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.) Garnish top of cake with banana slices, if desired, and serve.

Lemon Coconut Cookies 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons freshly grated lemon zest
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon lemon extract
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut, toasted and cooled
confectioners' sugar for sprinkling the cookies

In a bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy and beat in the zest, the vanilla, and the lemon extract. Add the flour and the salt, beat the mixture until it forms a dough, and stir in the coconut. Chill the dough for 1 hour, or until it is firm enough to handle. Halve the dough and on a sheet of wax paper form each half into an 8-inch log, using the wax paper as a guide. Chill the logs, wrapped in the wax paper, for at least 4 hours or overnight.
Preheat the oven to 300 degrees F. Cut the logs into 1/4-inch-thick slices with a sharp knife and arrange the slices 2 inches apart on lightly butter baking sheets. Bake the cookies in the middle of the oven for 25 to 30 minutes, or until they are pale golden, transfer them to racks, and sprinkle them generously with some of the confectioners' sugar. Let the cookies cool and dust them lightly with the remaining confectioners' sugar.

Plum Küchen 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup plus 1/4 cup sugar
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1/2 cup sour cream
5 large plums, halved, pitted, each cut into 8 wedges

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan. Sift flour, baking powder, 1 teaspoon cinnamon and salt into small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat 6 tablespoons butter with 2/3 cup sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then extracts. Beat in dry ingredients in 3 additions alternately with sour cream in 2 additions. Spread batter in pan.
Arrange plum wedges on their sides in 4 long rows atop batter. Mix 1/2 teaspoon cinnamon and 1/4 cup sugar in small bowl. Sprinkle over plums. Melt 2 tablespoons butter. Drizzle over kuchen.
Bake kuchen until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Transfer pan to rack. Cool until just warm, about 30 minutes, or to room temperature. Cut into 4 lengthwise strips. Cut each strip crosswise into thirds.

Chocolate-Dipped Orange Cookies 
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1/8 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup confectioners' sugar
1 large egg, separated, the white at room temperature
2 tablespoons freshly grated orange zest
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
1 tablespoon fresh orange juice
granulated sugar for sprinkling the cookies
2 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, melted and cooked slightly

Into a large bowl sift together the flour, the cornstarch, the baking powder and a pinch of salt. In a bowl with an electric mixer cream together the butter and the confectioners' sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, beat in the yolk, the zest, the vanilla, and the orange juice, and stir in the flour mixture well. In a bowl beat the white until it forms soft peaks and fold it gently but thoroughly into the mixture. (The batter will have the consistency of soft dough.) Transfer the batter to a pastry bag fitted with a decorative ribbon tip and onto the buttered baking sheet pipe 1 1/2-inch lengths 1 inch apart. Sprinkle the lengths with the granulated sugar and bake the cookies in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 10 to 12 minutes, or until the edges are golden. Transfer the cookies to racks and let them cool until they can be handled. Dip 1 end of each cookie into the chocolate and let the cookies dry completely on the racks.

Coconut Spice Cake 
2 cups plus 3 tablespoons sifted unbleached all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
2 eggs
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons light unsulfured molasses
2 tablespoons grated orange peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup buttermilk
1 cup shredded sweetened coconut, toasted
1/2 cup diced crystallized ginger (about 2 1/2 ounces)
8 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons grated orange peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1-pound box powdered sugar
1/3 cup minced crystallized ginger (scant 2 ounces)
1 cup shredded sweetened coconut, toasted
Tropical fruit such as pineapple, papaya and mango, cut into bite-size pieces

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms with parchment. Butter parchment; dust pans with flour. Sift flour, baking powder, ground ginger, baking soda, salt and ground cinnamon into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, cream unsalted butter and sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Add unsulfured molasses, grated orange peel and vanilla extract and beat 1 minute at high speed until well blended. Mix in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Fold in shredded coconut and crystallized ginger.
Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake until cakes begin to pull away from sides of pans, about 30 minutes. Cool in pans on rack 5 minutes. Invert cakes onto racks. Remove parchment and cool completely.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter until smooth. Mix in orange peel and vanilla. Beat in sugar. Mix in ginger.
Place 1 cake layer on platter, flat side down. Spread with some of icing. Sprinkle with 3/4 cup coconut. Top with second layer, flat side up. Spread remaining icing over top and sides of cake. Arrange remaining coconut around top edge of cake. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Chill until icing is set; wrap lightly with plastic and refrigerate. Bring to room temperature.) Place fruit around base of cake.

Nanny Hartenbaum's Chocolate Cake 
1 cup water
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1-pound box dark brown sugar
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups all purpose flour, sifted
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1 tablespoon (or more) hot water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly grease 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan. Combine 1 cup water and chocolate in heavy small saucepan over low heat. Stir until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Let cool 10 minutes.
Using electric mixer, beat 1 cup butter and dark brown sugar in large bowl until fluffy, about 3 minutes.
Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition (mixture will resemble thick frosting). Stir baking soda into chocolate mixture. Mix flour into butter mixture alternately with chocolate mixture in 2 additions each.
Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool completely.
Stir chocolate and butter in heavy small saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth. Remove from heat. Sift powdered sugar into medium bowl. Add chocolate mixture, 1 tablespoon water and vanilla and stir until smooth. Thin to spreading consistency with more water if necessary.
Spread frosting over cake. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with foil and let stand at room temperature.) Cut into squares and serve.

Anise Pine-Nut Cookies 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup vegetable shortening
1/3 cup confectioners' sugar
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/2 teaspoon aniseed
3/4 cup pine nuts, toasted lightly and cooled

In a bowl with an electric mixer cream together the butter, the shortening, and the sugars until mixture is light and fluffy and beat in the vanilla. In another bowl whisk together the flour, the salt, and the baking powder and add the flour mixture to the butter mixture. In a food processor or blender grind fine the aniseed and 1/2 cup of the pine nuts, add the mixture to the dough, and blend the dough well.
Drop teaspoons of dough 2 inches apart onto greased baking sheets, top each cookie with several of the remaining pine nuts, and bake the cookies in a preheated 325 degrees F. oven, switching the positions of the baking sheets halfway through the cooking time for 18 to 20 minutes, or until they are golden. Let the cookies cool on the baking sheets for 2 minutes, transfer them carefully (the cookies are very delicate) with a metal spatula to racks, and let them cool completely. The cookies keep in an airtight container for 4 days.

Raisin Tea Cake 
1 tablespoon coriander seeds
1 two-inch cinnamon stick, crushed
1 teaspoon whole cloves
1 teaspoon allspice berries
1 tablespoon ground nutmeg
2 teaspoons ground ginger
2 1/4 cups water
3 cups raisins
8 tablespoons (1 stick) cold butter, cut into small pieces
1 cup sugar
3 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1 egg, beaten

The day before baking, make the mixed spice: In a spice grinder, combine the coriander seeds, cinnamon, cloves, and allspice. Grind until powdery. Pour into an airtight container. Add nutmeg and ginger and mix well. Measure out 1 level tablespoon and store the remainder in a cool place for later use.
Combine the mixed spice with the water, raisins, butter, and sugar in a medium saucepan. Bring to a boil, then reduce heat and simmer for 20 minutes. Remove from heat and let cool completely. Cover and refrigerate overnight.
The next day, let the raisin mixture sit at room temperature for 1 hour. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Generously grease a 9-inch round cake pan.
Sift the flour, baking soda, and salt together into a large bowl. Stir in the raisin mixture and blend well. Stir in the egg. Pour into the prepared pan. Place on the center rack of the oven with a pan of water. Bake until the cake is lightly browned and a skewer inserted into the center comes out clean, about 1 1/4 hours.

Lebkuchen 
3/4 cup hazelnuts (3 1/2 oz)
3/4 cup sliced almonds (2 1/2 oz)
2 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1 tablespoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup packed dark brown sugar
3/4 cup mild honey
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2 large eggs
1/2 cup finely chopped fine-quality mixed candied fruit such as citron, orange, and lemon*
4 (11 1/2- by 8 1/4-inch) sheets edible rice paper, cut with scissors into 32 (2 1/2-inch) rounds
2 cups confectioners sugar
3 tablespoons water

Finely grind nuts with remaining nut flour ingredients in a food processor.
Beat together brown sugar, honey, and butter in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until creamy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in nut flour at low speed until just blended, then stir in candied fruit.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Arrange rice-paper rounds, shiny sides down, on 2 large baking sheets. Roll level 2-tablespoon amounts of dough into balls with dampened hands, then put 1 on each paper round and flatten slightly (dough will spread to cover paper during baking).
Bake cookies in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until surface no longer appears wet, about 15 minutes total. Transfer to racks to cool.
Sift confectioners sugar into a bowl, then stir in water until smooth. Evenly brush tops of cooled cookies with icing. Let icing set, about 1 hour.
Available at Fauchon (212-308-5919) or The Baker's Catalogue (800-827-6836).

Carrot Raisin Cake with Irish Cream Frosting 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 tablespoons double-acting baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon allspice
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup firmly packed brown sugar
4 large eggs
2 1/2 cups finely grated carrot
1/2 cup raisins
2 teaspoons freshly grated orange zest
1/4 cup fresh orange juice
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2 1/4 cups confectioners' sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup Irish cream liqueur or heavy cream
confectioners' sugar for sifting over the cake

In a bowl combine well the flour, the baking powder, the salt, the cinnamon, the nutmeg, and the allspice. In another bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter with the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, beat in the eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat the mixture until it is smooth. Add the carrot, the raisins, and the zest and combine the mixture well. Stir in the flour mixture alternately with the orange juice in 2 batches and stir the batter until it is combined well. Divide the batter between 2 buttered and floured 8-inch round cake pans, spreading it evenly, and bake the layers in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 40 to 45 minutes or less, or until a tester comes out clean and the edges begin to pull away from the sides of the pans. Let the layers cool in the pans for 20 minutes, invert them onto racks, and let them cool completely. The cake layers may be made 1 day in advance and kept, wrapped well, at room temperature.
Invert one of the cake layers onto a plate, spread one third of the frosting on top, and top it with the second layer. Spread three fourths of the remaining frosting on the side of the cake decoratively and reserve the remaining frosting in a pastry bag fitted with a star tip. Put a paper doily on top of the cake, sift the confectioners' sugar over it, and remove the doily carefully. Pipe the reserved frosting decoratively around the edge of the cake.
In a bowl with an electric mixer cream the butter until it is smooth, beat in the confectioners' sugar gradually, and beat in the salt and the Irish cream. Beat the frosting until it is light and fluffy.

Coconut Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups firmly packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 cups sweetened flaked coconut
2 cups (12 ounces) Semisweet chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
In a bowl whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt. In another bowl with an electric mixer cream butter and sugars until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition and beat in flour mixture. Beat in vanilla and stir in coconut and chocolate chips.
Drop dough by level tablespoons 2 inches apart onto buttered baking sheets and bake cookies in middle of oven 10 minutes, or until golden. Cool cookies on baking sheet 1 minute and transfer to racks to cool completely.
Cookies keep in airtight containers 5 days.

Pound Cake with Vanilla Ice Cream and Apple Cider Sauce 
3 cups apple cider
1 cup whipping cream
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 drops lemon extract
4 slices purchased pound cake
1 pint vanilla ice cream
1/2 cup walnuts, toasted, chopped

Boil apple cider in large skillet until reduced to 1/2 cup, about 18 minutes. Add cream; boil until slightly thickened, about 2 minutes. Transfer to bowl. Whisk in butter and both extracts. Cool slightly, then chill until cold, at least 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep chilled.)
Place 1 slice of cake on each plate. Top each with ice cream, sauce and nuts.

Christmas Cake with Fudge Frosting 
1 cup chopped dried Calimyrna figs (about 5 ounces)
1/2 cup dried currants
1/2 cup brandy
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1 5 1/2-ounce can prune juice (2/3 cup)
1/2 cup buttermilk
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled
2 large eggs
3/4 cup whipping cream
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 pound bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
1 1/2 cups chilled sour cream
2 cups finely chopped toasted walnuts
10 walnut halves, toasted

Mix chopped dried figs, dried currants and brandy in medium bowl. Let stand 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 15 1/2 x 10 1/2 x 1-inch jelly roll pan. Line with parchment. Butter and flour parchment. Drain fruit mixture; reserve soaking liquid. Mix sugar, flour, cocoa, baking soda, baking powder, and spices in large bowl. Whisk prune juice, buttermilk, butter and eggs in medium bowl to blend. Add prune juice mixture to dry ingredients and whisk to blend. fold in drained fruit.
Pour batter into prepared pan; smooth top. Bake until tester inserted into center o cake comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool in pan on rack.
Bring reserved fruit soaking liquid, cream and butter to simmer in heavy large saucepan, whisking until butter melts. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and whisk until melted and smooth.Add sour cream and whisk to blend. Refrigerate frosting until thick enough to spread, stirring occasionally, about 30 minutes.
Run sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn out cake onto work surface. Peel off parchment. Using serrated knife, cut cake crosswise into three 5 10-inch rectangles. Place 1 cake piece on platter. Tuck waxed paper strips under cake on all sides to protect platter. Spread 1/2 cup frosting over cake. Sprinkle with 1/4 cup chopped walnuts. Top with second cake piece. Spread 1/2 cup frosting over. Sprinkle with 1/4 cup chopped walnuts. Top with third cake piece. Spoon 3/4 cup frosting into pastry bag fitted with small star tip and reserve. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Press remaining chopped walnuts onto sides of cake. Remove waxed paper strips. Using reserved frosting, pipe 5 rosettes atop cake along each ling edge, spacing evenly. Place walnut halves between rosettes. Refrigerate 1 hour to set frosting. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated. Let stand 2 hours at room temperature before serving.)

Pearl's Banana Cake 
2 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring) plus additional for pans
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup granulated sugar
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup whole milk
4 to 5 ripe large bananas
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream
1/2 cup superfine granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 (9-inch) round cake pans and line bottom of each with a round of parchment or wax paper. Butter paper, then dust pans with flour, knocking out excess.
Whisk together 2 cups flour, baking powder, and salt.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes with a standing mixer or 5 minutes with a handheld. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in vanilla. Reduce speed to low and add half of flour mixture, mixing until blended. Add milk and mix until just combined, then add remaining flour mixture, mixing just until batter is smooth.
Divide batter evenly between cake pans, smoothing tops. Bake in middle of oven until cake is springy to the touch and a tester inserted in center of each cake layer comes out clean, 15 to 20 minutes. Cool in pans on racks 10 minutes, then invert onto racks, remove paper, and cool completely.
Peel bananas and cut into 1/8-inch-thick slices, then lightly brush with lemon juice (to prevent discoloring).
Beat cream with superfine sugar and vanilla in a bowl with cleaned beaters at medium speed until it just holds stiff peaks.
Put 1 cake layer on a cake plate and spread with 3/4 cup whipped cream. Top with 1 layer of banana slices arranged side by side. Arrange second cake layer over bananas and spread remaining cream over top and sides of cake. Arrange remaining bananas, overlapping slightly, on top of cake.

Wacky Chocolate Cake 
1 1/2 cups (7 ounces) bleached all-purpose flour
1/4 cup (0.75 ounce) unsweetened, nonalkalized cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (7.5 ounces) granulated sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon white or cider vinegar
6 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 cup water

1. Position a rack in the center of the oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Lightly grease an 8-inch square pan.
2. Sift the flour, cocoa, baking soda, and salt directly into the baking pan, then add the sugar. With your finger, poke 2 small holes and 1 large one in the dry ingredients. Into one of the small holes pour the vanilla, into the other one the vinegar, and into the larger one the oil.
3. Pour the water over all the ingredients and stir the ingredients together with a table fork, reaching into the corners, until you can’t see any more flour and the batter looks fairly well homogenized.
4. Bake for 35 to 40 minutes, or until the top is springy and a tester inserted in the center comes out dry. Cool the cake in the pan on a wire rack, then cut and serve it from the pan.
Storage Keep at room temperature, wrapped airtight, for up to 3 days; refrigerate after that.
Level of difficulty* [easy enough for a novice to make]

Devil's Food Cupcakes 
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate
2 cups granulated sugar
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup hot brewed coffee
1/2 cup sour cream
1/2 cup vegetable oil
2 large eggs, lightly beaten
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate
3/4 cup evaporated milk
1 cup confectioners' sugar
1/4 teaspoon kosher salt

For the cupcakes, preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line16 muffin cups with liners.
Melt the chocolate in a double boiler over hot, not simmering, water. Remove the pan from the heat.
Sift the sugar, flour, baking soda, and salt together into a large bowl. In a medium bowl, whisk together the hot coffee, sour cream, and vegetable oil. Gradually whisk in the eggs, then stir in the chocolate. Add the wet ingredients to the dry ingredients and stir until all the ingredients are smoothly blended.
Fill the cupcake liners about two-thirds full. Bake until a toothpick inserted in the center of a cupcake comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes. Cool completely on a wire rack.
For the frosting, melt the chocolate in a double boiler over hot, not simmering, water. Place the milk, sugar, and salt in a medium bowl and stir until the sugar is dissolved, about 2 minutes. Add the chocolate in a slow stream and mix until thoroughly blended. Refrigerate for about 30 minutes before using. Frost the cupcakes with the frosting.

Ginger Molasses Lace Cookies 
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter
2 tablespoons unsulfured molasses
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground ginger

In a 1- to 1 1/2-quart heavy saucepan bring sugar, butter, molasses, and lemon juice to a boil over moderate heat, stirring, and boil 1 minute. Remove pan from heat and stir in flour, ginger, and a pinch salt until mixture is smooth. Cool dough to room temperature. Form and bake cookies as directed below.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Roll level 1/2-teaspoons dough into balls and arrange 4 inches apart on baking sheets. Bake cookies in batches in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, 10 minutes, or until cookies are flat and golden. Transfer parchment with cookies to racks to cool. Cool baking sheets and line with fresh parchment between batches.

Strawberry-Strawberry Cheesecake 
1 10-ounce package shortbread cookies (such as Lorna Doone)
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
10 ounces frozen unsweetened strawberries (about 2 3/4 cups), thawed, juices reserved
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
3 large eggs
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1/3 cup strawberry or currant jelly
3 1-pint baskets fresh strawberries, hulled, halved lengthwise

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Grind cookies in processor to coarse crumbs. Add butter and blend until crumbs are evenly moistened. Press crumb mixture over bottom and 1 inch up sides of prepared pan. Bake crust until just golden, about 8 minutes. Set aside while preparing filling. Maintain oven temperature.
Puree thawed strawberries and juices in processor until smooth. Measure 3/4 cup puree (reserve any remaining puree for another use); do not wash bowl. Add cream cheese and sugar to processor. Blend until smooth. Using on/off turns, blend in flour. Add eggs; process until smooth, scraping down sides of bowl occasionally. Add 3/4 cup strawberry puree, lemon juice, vanilla extract, and almond extract; process until well blended. Transfer filling to prepared crust.
Bake cake until center is softly set and edges begin to color, puff and crack, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Place hot cheesecake on rack. Refrigerate uncovered on rack until cold, at least 4 hours. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.)
Using small knife, cut around pan sides to loosen cake; remove pan sides. Stir jelly in heavy saucepan over low heat until melted. Arrange berry halves atop cheesecake in concentric circles; brush with warm jelly to glaze. Chill at least 1 hour and up to 8 hours.

Toasted-Coconut Cookies 
1 1/2 cups sweetened flaked coconut
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 sticks (1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
In a shallow baking pan spread coconut evenly and lightly toast in middle of oven, stirring once, until pale golden, 4 to 5 minutes. Cool coconut.
Into a small bowl sift together flour, baking soda, and salt. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugars until light and fluffy. Beat in egg and vanilla and stir in flour mixture and coconut until combined well.
Arrange teaspoons of dough about 1‚ inches apart on ungreased baking sheets and bake in batches in middle of oven until golden, 8 to 10 minutes. Cool cookies on sheets 1 minute and with a metal spatula transfer to racks to cool. Cookies keep in an airtight container at room temperature 1 week.

Orange-Butter Pound Cake 
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 3/4 cups sugar
6 large eggs
2 tablespoons orange juice
1 tablespoon grated orange peel
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour 12-cup Bundt pan. Using electric mixer, beat 1 1/4 cups butter in large bowl until smooth. Gradually add sugar, beating until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then orange juice, orange peel and vanilla. Add flour and salt and beat just until blended. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until golden and tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour 5 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 10 minutes. Invert cake onto rack; cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap; store at room temperature.)

Orange Almond Lace Cookies 
2/3 cup sliced almonds
1/2 cup fresh orange juice
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
2 teaspoons freshly grated orange zest
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons cider vinegar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. In a baking pan toast almonds in one layer in middle of oven until golden, about 10 minutes.
In a 1- to 1 1/2-quart heavy saucepan bring orange juice, sugar, and butter to a boil over moderate heat, stirring, and boil about 5 minutes or until mixture is thick and bubbles are tan-colored. Remove pan from heat and stir in almonds, zest, flour, vinegar, and a pinch salt until mixture is combined well. Cool dough to room temperature. Form and bake cookies as directed below.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Roll level 1/2-teaspoons dough into balls and arrange 4 inches apart on baking sheets. Bake cookies in batches in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, 10 minutes, or until cookies are flat and golden. Transfer parchment with cookies to racks to cool. Cool baking sheets and line with fresh parchment between batches.

Pineapple Upside-Down Gingerbread Cake 
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
2/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 20-ounce cans pineapple chunks in heavy syrup, drained, patted dry with paper towels
2 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
3/4 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup whole milk
2 tablespoons minced crystallized ginger
1 cup whipping cream, beaten to soft peaks

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Melt 1/4 cup butter in 10-inch-diameter cast-iron skillet or other heavy ovenproof skillet (preferably nonstick) over medium heat. Add 2/3 cup brown sugar and stir until mixture begins to form thick mass, about 4 minutes. Continue cooking, without stirring, until butter mixture spreads and covers bottom of skillet and bubbles appear all over surface, about 6 minutes longer. Remove skillet from heat. Arrange pineapple chunks close together in concentric circles atop sugar mixture in skillet.
Sift first 8 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat molasses, golden brown sugar, melted butter, eggs and vanilla extract in large bowl until well blended, about 2 minutes. Add half of dry ingredients, then whole milk, then remaining half of dry ingredients, beating until well blended after each addition. Beat in crystallized ginger. Spread batter evenly over pineapple in skillet.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cake in skillet 5 minutes. Run small knife around sides of skillet to loosen cake. Place platter over cake in skillet; invert cake onto platter. Cool cake at least 1 hour. Serve slightly warm or at room temperature with whipped cream.

Meringue Ice-Cream Cake with Strawberries Remington 
7 large egg whites
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
2 1/2 cups granulated sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 pints strawberries (about 2 pounds)
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
1 quart vanilla ice cream
Garnish: trimmed whole strawberries

Do not preheat oven. Butter two 10-inch springform pans.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat whites with cream of tartar and a pinch salt until they just hold soft peaks. Add granulated sugar a little at a time, beating, and beat meringue until it is very glossy and holds soft peaks. Fold in vanilla and divide meringue between springform pans, smoothing tops. Put pans in upper and lower thirds of oven and set oven to 275 degrees F. Bake meringue layers, switching position of pans halfway through baking, 45 minutes total. Cool meringue layers in pans on racks and carefully remove sides of pans. Meringue will be crisp on the outside and marshmallowy on the inside. Meringue layers may be made 1 day ahead and kept in an airtight container at room temperature.
Trim strawberries and quarter lengthwise. In a bowl sprinkle strawberries with granulated sugar and toss to coat. With a potato masher gently crush strawberries until they begin to release their juices, being careful not to crush them to a pulp. Let strawberry sauce stand at room temperature until more juices are released, no more than 1 hour (otherwise sauce will be too liquid). In a bowl beat cream with confectioners’ sugar until it just holds stiff peaks and chill while assembling cake. Slightly soften vanilla ice cream. Loosen meringue layers from pan bottoms and put 1 layer on a large cake plate. Working quickly, spread ice cream onto meringue on plate and top with remaining meringue layer. Spread whipped cream decoratively on top of cake and with a slotted spoon transfer 1 spoonful of strawberries from sauce onto center of top of cake.
Garnish outer edge of top of cake with whole strawberries and serve cake immediately with remaining strawberry sauce on the side.

Sour Cream Maple Cake with Lemon Glaze 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/3 cups sour cream
1/4 cup pure maple syrup
1/2 cup walnuts, toasted, chopped
1/4 cup plus 1 1/3 cups maple sugar
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
13 tablespoons butter, cut into pieces, room temperature
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/3 cups powdered sugar
3 tablespoons sour cream
1 tablespoon pure maple syrup
1 1/2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon peel
Whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter Bundt pan, then spray with nonstick spray. Combine flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in medium bowl. Whisk sour cream and maple syrup in another medium bowl. Mix walnuts, 1/4 cup maple sugar, and cinnamon in small bowl.
Using electric mixer, beat butter and remaining 1 1/3 cups maple sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in eggs and vanilla, occasionally stopping to scrape down sides of bowl. Add flour mixture in 3 additions, alternating with sour cream mixture in 2 additions. Transfer 2/3 of batter to prepared Bundt pan. Sprinkle with walnut mixture. Pour remaining batter into pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Cool 20 minutes. Turn out cake onto rack; cool completely.
Whisk first 6 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Let stand until thickened, about 30 minutes. Pour glaze over cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep at room temperature.)
Serve cake with whipped cream.

Mother Berta's Carrot Cake 
3 medium-sized carrots, peeled
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 cup corn oil
3 eggs, lightly beaten
2 teaspoons vanilla
1 cup chopped walnuts
1 cup shredded coconut (sweetened variety)
3/4 cup canned crushed pineapple, drained
4 ounces cream cheese, softened
3 tablespoons butter, softened
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar, sifted
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon lemon juice

1. Cut 2 carrots into 1-inch dice; place in a saucepan, cover with water and simmer until tender, about 10 minutes. Drain and puree in a food processor or blender. Set aside.
2. Grate the remaining carrot; reserve.
3. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a 9x13-inch baking pan. Line the bottom with waxed paper and grease the paper.
4. Sift the flour, sugar, baking soda and cinnamon into a large bowl. Add the oil, eggs and vanilla; beat well. Fold in the carrot puree, grated carrot, walnuts, coconut and pineapple.
5. Pour the batter into the prepared pan. Bake until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, about 1 hour.
6. Cool the cake in the pan for 10 minutes before unmolding it onto a rack, then let the cake cool completely.
7. Prepare the frosting: Mix the cream cheese and butter together in a bowl. Slowly add the confectioners' sugar. Stir in the vanilla and lemon juice. Frost the cake.

Apple Betty Squares 
3 slices firm white sandwich bread, torn into quarters
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) cold unsalted butter
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 sticks (1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons) unsalted butter
2 lb tart apples
2/3 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Grind bread to fine crumbs in a food processor. Spread in a shallow baking pan and toast in middle of oven, stirring once, until golden, about 5 minutes. Leave oven on.
Cut butter into 1/2-inch pieces, then pulse in a food processor with flour, brown sugar, and salt until it begins to form small lumps. Sprinkle base into a 13- by 9-inch baking pan and press evenly onto bottom. Bake in middle of oven until golden, about 20 minutes.
Melt butter and keep warm. Peel, quarter, and core apples and thinly slice quarters crosswise. Stir together sugar and flour in a small bowl.
Sprinkle half of sugar mixture over hot shortbread, then top with apples and sprinkle with remaining sugar mixture. Top with bread crumbs and drizzle all of butter over them.
Bake in upper third of oven, pressing down on filling with a metal spatula halfway through baking, until apples are very tender and bread crumbs are golden, 50 minutes to 1 hour total. Cool 20 minutes in pan on a rack.

Ginger Cake 
3 cups all-purpose flour
4 teaspoons ground ginger
2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup packed light brown sugar
1 cup blackstrap molasses*
1 cup boiling-hot water
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 large eggs, lightly beaten
Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 9-inch springform pan.
Whisk together flour, ginger, and cinnamon in a medium bowl until blended.
Beat together butter and brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes.
Whisk together molasses and boiling water in another large (at least 2-quart) bowl, then whisk in baking soda (mixture will bubble up and expand).
Add flour and molasses mixtures alternately to butter mixture in 3 batches, mixing at medium speed until incorporated. Beat in eggs until smooth. (Batter will be thin.)
Pour batter into springform pan and bake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out clean, 55 to 65 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes, then remove side of pan and continue to cool cake on rack at least 30 minutes more. Serve warm.
*Available at natural foods shops.

Gianduia Mousse Cake 
9 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened)
7 ounces fine-quality milk chocolate
1 cup Nutella * (chocolate-hazelnut spread; from a 13-ounce jar)
3/4 cupunsweetened hazelnut butter **
6 large eggs
1/2 cup superfine granulated sugar
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream
Accompaniment: whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F and butter a 10-inch springform pan. Wrap bottom and side of pan with a large piece of heavy-duty foil to waterproof.
Chop chocolates into small pieces and melt in a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water, stirring until smooth. Remove top of double boiler or bowl from heat and stir in Nutella and hazelnut butter until combined well.
In a large bowl of a standing electric mixer or in a large bowl with a handheld mixer beat eggs until frothy, about 1 minute. Gradually add sugar, beating mixture at high speed until thick and pale and it holds a slowly dissolving ribbon when beaters are lifted, about 4 minutes if using a standing mixer and about 8 minutes if using a hand-held mixer. Pour chocolate mixture into egg mixture and stir until combined well. In a chilled bowl beat cream until it holds soft peaks and fold into batter gently but thoroughly.
Pour batter into springform pan and put springform pan in a roasting pan. Add enough hot water to roasting pan to reach halfway up side of springform pan. Bake cake in middle of oven 1 hour and 10 minutes. Turn off oven and let cake stand in oven 40 minutes. Remove springform pan from water and cool cake in pan on a rack 30 minutes. Remove side of pan from cake. Let cake cool completely before serving.
Serve cake with whipped cream. Cake keeps, covered and chilled, 3 days. Cake served at room temperature will have a texture reminiscent of mousse; chilled cake will be more fudgelike.
Available at specialty foods shops and many supermarkets.
** Available for purchase from Dundee Orchards, P.O. Box 327, Dundee, OR 97115, (503) 538-8105.

German Apple Cake (Versunkener Apfelkuchen) 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon double-acting baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter or margarine, softened
1 3/4 cups sugar
3 large eggs, separated
1/2 cup milk
8 medium (about 3 pounds) cooking apples, such as Golden Delicious, Granny Smith, Gravenstein, Greening, Jonathan, Macoun, Pippin, Starr, Winesap, Yellow Transparent, or any combination, cored and diced (peeling is optional)
1 cup confectioners' sugar, or 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar and 1/2 cup light brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla or almond extract
1 to 2 tablespoons milk or water

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a kugelhopf or 10-inch Bundt pan.
2. Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Beat the butter until smooth, about 1 minute. Gradually add the sugar and beat until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Beat in the egg yolks, one at a time. Stir in the flour mixture and milk.
3. Beat the egg whites on low speed until foamy, about 30 seconds. Increase the speed to high and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold one-fourth of the whites into the batter, then gently fold in the remaining whites.
4. Pour half of the batter into the prepared pan. Spread with half of the apples. Top with the remaining batter, then the remaining apples.
5. Bake until golden brown, 50 to 60 minutes. Let cool in the pan for 20 minutes, then transfer to a rack and let cool completely.
6. To make the glaze if using: Combine all the glaze ingredients, stirring until smooth and of pouring consistency. Drizzle over the cake and let stand until set.

Carrot-Walnut Bundt Cake with Lemon Cream Cheese Icing 
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
4 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups sugar
3/4 cup olive oil
3 large eggs
1 1/2 cups grated carrots (about 3 large)
3/4 cup chopped toasted walnuts
Lemon Cream Cheese Icing

Place rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 12-cup nonstick Bundt pan. Whisk flour, cinnamon, baking soda and salt in medium bowl until well blended. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, oil and eggs in large bowl on medium speed until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add flour mixture, beating just until blended. Fold in carrots and walnuts.
Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake cake until toothpick inserted near center comes out clean, about 50 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 1 hour.
Invert cake onto plate. Cool completely. Drizzle icing over top of cake, allowing icing to flow down sides. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill.)

Oatmeal Coconut Raspberry Bars 
1 1/2 cups sweetened flaked coconut
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 1/2 cups old-fashioned oats
3/4 cup seedless raspberry jam

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Spread 3/4 cup coconut evenly on a baking sheet and toast in middle of oven, stirring once, until golden, about 8 minutes, then cool.
Blend together flour, sugars, and salt in a food processor, then add butter and blend until a dough begins to form. Transfer to a bowl and knead in oats and toasted coconut until combined well.
Reserve 3/4 cup dough, then press remainder evenly into bottom of a buttered 13- by 9-inch metal baking pan and spread jam over it. Crumble reserved dough evenly over jam, then sprinkle with remaining 3/4 cup (untoasted) coconut.
Bake in middle of oven until golden, 20 to 25 minutes, then cool completely in pan on a rack. Loosen from sides of pan with a sharp knife, then lift out in 1 piece and transfer to a cutting board.
Cut into 24 bars.

Three Milk Cake with Rompope 
1 1/2 cups rompope
1 cup evaporated milk
1 cup sweetened condensed milk
1 cup whipping cream
5 large eggs
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup cake flour
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled to lukewarm
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
3 tablespoons sugar
1 1-pint basket strawberries, halved
Fresh mint sprigs (optional)
1 1-pint basket strawberries, hulled, sliced

Whisk all ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Pour half of liquid into heavy large saucepan. Bring to boil. Reduce heat to medium and boil gently until mixture is reduced to 1 1/4 cups, stirring frequently, about 17 minutes. Whisk in remaining half of liquid. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Rewarm just until lukewarm before using.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 8-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pan with parchment paper; butter and flour parchment. Whisk eggs and sugar to blend in large bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water (do not allow bottom of bowl to touch water). Using electric mixer, beat mixture constantly until thick, pale yellow, and tripled in volume, about 9 minutes. Remove bowl from over water. Continue to beat mixture until cool, about 6 minutes. Sift flour over egg mixture in 3 additions, gently folding in each addition. Transfer 1 cup batter to small bowl; fold in melted butter in 3 additions. Gently fold into batter in large bowl, being careful not to deflate batter. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until top is deep golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cake in pan 10 minutes. Turn cake out onto deep platter at least 2 inches larger than cake. Remove parchment paper. Using wooden skewer, pierce cake all over top, spacing piercings 1/2 inch apart and pressing skewer down to bottom of cake.
Gradually pour half of lukewarm rompope syrup over top of hot cake, spreading over cake with spatula and allowing rompope syrup to soak into cake before adding more. Invert cake onto another large deep platter. Pierce cake all over top, spacing piercings 1/2 inch apart and pressing skewer down to bottom of cake. Gradually pour remaining rompope syrup over cake, spreading with spatula and allowing syrup to soak in before adding more. Let cake stand at room temperature until cooled completely, about 2 hours, occasionally spooning up any rompope syrup that collects on bottom of platter and drizzling syrup over cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
Using electric mixer, beat cream and sugar in large bowl until peaks form. Spread frosting over cake. (Can be made 4 hours ahead. Cover and chill.) Garnish with halved berries and mint, if desired. Serve with sliced berries.

Chocolate Griddle Cakes with Chocolate Sauce 
1 cup heavy cream
7 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), finely chopped
1/2 cup Dutch-process unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 whole large eggs
1 large egg yolk
3/4 cup well-shaken buttermilk
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1 teaspoon vanilla
Unsalted butter for greasing griddle

Bring cream to a boil in a 1-quart saucepan, then pour hot cream over chocolate in a bowl, gently whisking until smooth. Keep warm or at room temperature.
Sift together cocoa, flour, sugar, baking soda, and salt into a large bowl, then whisk in eggs, yolk, buttermilk, oil, and vanilla until combined well.
Heat a griddle or nonstick skillet over moderately low heat and lightly coat with butter.
Working in batches of 2 or 3, pour 1/4 cup batter per cake onto hot griddle and cook until bubbles appear on surface, 1 to 2 minutes. Flip cakes with a large spatula and cook until tops spring back when pressed gently, about 1 minute more. Transfer to a plate and loosely cover with foil to keep warm. Add 1/2 teaspoon butter to griddle between batches.
Serve cakes in stacks, topped with chocolate sauce.

Plum Torte 
3/4 cup PLUS 1 or 2 tablespoons sugar
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter
1 cup unbleached all-purpose flour, sifted
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 eggs
Pinch salt
24 halves pitted Italian (aka prune or purple) plums
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon, or more
Vanilla ice cream, optional

1. Arrange a rack in the lower third of the oven. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
2. In an electric mixer, cream the 3/4 cup sugar and butter. Add the flour, baking powder, eggs, and salt and beat to mix well. Place in a 9- or 10-inch ungreased springform pan. Cover the top with the plums, skin side down. Mix the cinnamon with the remaining 1 or 2 tablespoons of sugar and sprinkle over the top.
3. Bake for 40 to 50 minutes, until the center tests done with a toothpick. Remove and cool to room temperature or serve warm. Serve plain or with vanilla ice cream.

Sweet-Potato Layer Cake with Orange-Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 pounds tan-skinned sweet potatoes (about 3 medium)
3 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1 cup vegetable oil
1 cup sugar
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
4 large eggs
2/3 cup plus 1/4 cup chopped walnuts, toasted
2/3 cup plus 1/4 cup dried cranberries
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
31/4 cups powdered sugar, sifted
2 tablespoons frozen orange juice concentrate, thawed
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup sliced candied orange peel
3 tablespoons sugar

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Pierce potatoes with fork; place on small baking sheet. Roast potatoes until soft, about 1 hour. Cool, peel, and mash potatoes. Measure 2 cups mashed potatoes; cool to lukewarm (reserve any remaining potatoes for another use). Reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees F.
Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides; line pans with parchment. Sift flour and next 6 ingredients into medium bowl. Combine oil, 1 cup sugar, and brown sugar in large bowl; whisk until smooth. Whisk in eggs 1 at a time, then mashed sweet potatoes. Whisk in flour mixture in 3 additions. Stir in 2/3 cup walnuts and 2/3 cup cranberries. Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cakes completely in pans on racks.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in powdered sugar, scraping down bowl often. Beat in orange juice concentrate and vanilla.
Cut around pan sides; turn out cakes. Peel off parchment. Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on platter. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over. Top with second cake layer, flat side down. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Combine orange peel, 3 tablespoons sugar, remaining 1/4 cup walnuts, and 1/4 cup cranberries in small bowl. Stir to coat with sugar. Transfer to sieve; sift off excess sugar. Sprinkle fruit and nut mixture decoratively atop cake. Chill until frosting sets, at least 2 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; keep chilled. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.)

Raspberry and Peach Parfait Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 13-ounce package soft coconut macaroons
1/2 cup sliced almonds, toasted
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
3 large peaches (about 20 ounces), peeled, pitted, diced
3 1/2-pint containers raspberries
2 1/2 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
9 large egg yolks
3/4 cup sugar
1/3 cup light corn syrup
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons peach schnapps
5 ounces imported white chocolate, finely chopped
6 large peaches (about 2 1/2 pounds), peeled, pitted, thinly sliced
1/2 cup sugar
1/3 cup peach schnapps
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
3 1/2-pint containers raspberries (for topping)

Spray 9-inch springform pan with 3-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Finely grind macaroons, almonds, and lemon peel in processor. Press half of mixture over bottom of prepared pan.
Puree peaches in processor. Transfer puree to heavy deep-sided saucepan and bring to simmer over medium heat. Cook until reduced to 1 cup, stirring often, about 10 minutes (color of puree will darken slightly). Transfer to bowl and chill until cool, about 15 minutes.
Puree raspberries in processor. Strain through sieve set over medium bowl, pressing to extract as much fruit as possible. Chill puree.
Whisk 1/4 cup cream, egg yolks, sugar, corn syrup, and butter in large metal bowl to combine. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water (do not allow bottom of bowl to touch water). Whisk constantly until parfait base thickens and thermometer inserted into base registers 160 degrees F, about 8 minutes.
Remove bowl from over water. Using electric mixer, beat parfait base until billowy and completely cool, about 8 minutes. Divide between 2 medium bowls (about 1 cup parfait base in each bowl). Beat remaining 2 1/4 cups cream in large bowl until medium peaks form. Fold cool peach puree and schnapps into 1 parfait base, then fold in half of whipped cream. Spread peach parfait in prepared pan. Sprinkle remaining macaroon mixture over. Place in freezer.
Fold 1 cup of raspberry puree (reserve remaining puree for another use) into parfait base in second bowl. Fold in remaining whipped cream. Spread parfait over macaroon mixture in pan. Cover; freeze at least 8 hours and up to 2 days.
Fold 30x7-inch strip aluminum foil lengthwise in half to form 30x3 1/2-inch strip.
Microwave white chocolate in glass bowl for 10-second intervals until chocolate just begins to melt; stir until smooth. Pour into small resealable plastic bag. Cut tip off 1 corner of bag. Pipe white chocolate over foil strip in lacy design. Let stand until chocolate sets, about 10 minutes.
Using heated knife, cut around parfait cake to loosen; remove pan sides. Holding foil strip upright and parallel to bottom of cake, place 1 end against cake, white chocolate side in. Gently press strip completely around cake like a fence, leaving overhang. Freeze 10 minutes. Starting at overhang, carefully peel off foil. Trim off chocolate overhang. Cover; return cake to freezer for up to 12 hours.
Combine all ingredients except raspberries in large bowl; let compote stand at least 15 minutes and up to 1 hour, stirring occasionally. Arrange raspberries atop cake. Cut cake into wedges. Serve with compote.
Lindt and Perugina white chocolate gave the best results in our test kitchen.

Spiced Plum Shortcakes 
2 cups all purpose flour
1/4 cup chopped crystallized ginger
2 tablespoons sugar
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
3/4 cup half and half
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
2 pounds dark red or purple plums, halved, pitted, cut into 1/2-inch slices
1/3 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1 cup chilled whipping cream
2 teaspoons powdered sugar
1/4 cup chopped crystallized ginger
Additional powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Whisk first 6 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Add butter; rub in with fingertips until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add half and half; stir just until dough forms. Gather dough into ball with floured hands. Gently knead 8 times against side of bowl. Roll out dough on floured surface to 3/4-inch-thick round. Using 3-inch-diameter cookie cutter, cut out 5 biscuits; place on ungreased baking sheet. Gather dough and reroll as needed to make 1 more biscuit. Bake biscuits until pale golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Cool 20 minutes. (Biscuits can be made 8 hours ahead; cool completely and store in airtight container at room temperature.)
Melt butter in large skillet over medium-high heat. Add plums and sugar. Cook until sugar dissolves and becomes syrupy and plums are just tender, stirring constantly, about 6 minutes. Remove from heat. Stir in cinnamon and ground ginger. Cool 5 minutes. (Can be made 4 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature; rewarm before serving.)
Using electric mixer, beat cream in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Add 2 teaspoons powdered sugar and beat to firm peaks. Fold in crystallized ginger.
Cut biscuits in half; place bottom halves on 6 dessert plates. Top with warm plums, then cream. Cover with biscuit tops. Sift powdered sugar over.

Vanilla-Bean Cheesecake with Guava Topping and Mango-Lime Salad 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/4 cups graham cracker crumbs
2 tablespoons sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
2 vanilla beans, split lengthwise
4 large eggs
3/4 cup sour cream
2 tablespoons plus 1/2 cup water
1 envelope unflavored gelatin
1/2 cup sugar
2 cups guava nectar or guava juice
Mango-Lime Salad
Toasted sweetened flaked coconut

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 8-inch-diameter springform pan with nonstick spray. Mix graham cracker crumbs and sugar in processor. Add melted butter; process until crumbs are evenly moistened. Press crumb mixture onto bottom (not sides) of prepared pan. Bake until crust is set and deep golden, about 12 minutes. Cool crust while making filling. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until smooth. Add sugar, then scrape in seeds from vanilla bean; beat until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, blending well after each addition. Beat in sour cream.
Pour filling over crust. Bake cake until puffed, golden on top, and set around edges, and center moves slightly when pan is gently shaken, about 1 hour (top may crack). Cool 30 minutes. Refrigerate uncovered overnight. Using back of spoon, smooth any cracks on top of cake.
Pour 2 tablespoons water into small bowl. Sprinkle gelatin over; let stand until gelatin softens, about 10 minutes. Bring sugar and remaining 1/2 cup water to boil in medium saucepan, stirring until sugar dissolves. Boil until reduced to 1/2 cup, about 3 minutes. Add guava nectar to sugar syrup; stir over medium-low heat just until mixture is hot. Add gelatin mixture and stir just until gelatin dissolves. Place in freezer until gelatin begins to thicken slightly but is still pourable, stirring occasionally, about 20 minutes. Spoon guava topping over cheesecake, spreading to edges of cake. Chill until topping sets, at least 8 hours or overnight.
Using small sharp knife, cut around sides of cake to loosen. Remove pan sides. Cut cake into wedges and transfer to plates. Spoon Mango-Lime Salad alongside. Sprinkle with toasted coconut.

Hungarian Seven-Layer Cake (Dobostorte) 
1 1/2 cups sugar
3/4 cup water
6 large egg yolks
2 cups (4 sticks) unsalted butter or margarine, softened
1/2 cup vegetable shortening
10 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, melted and cooled, or 2/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Pinch of salt
2 to 3 tablespoons rum or kirsch (optional)
6 large eggs
1 1/4 cups plus 1 tablespoon (9 ounces) sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups (7 1/2 ounces) all-purpose flour, measured by dip-and-sweep method
1 1/2 cups sugar
3/4 cup water
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar

1. To make the buttercream: Stir the sugar and water in a small saucepan over low heat until the sugar dissolves, about 5 minutes. Increase the heat to medium and boil, without stirring, until the syrup reaches the soft-ball stage, or 250 degrees F on a candy thermometer, about 10 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, beat the egg yolks until pale and thick, about 4 minutes. In a slow, steady stream, pour the hot syrup into the eggs, beating continuously as you pour. (Do not let the syrup touch the beaters or it will spin into threads.) Continue beating until the mixture thickens and cools to room temperature, about 10 minutes.
3. Beat in the butter and shortening, 2 tablespoons at a time, until absorbed. Gradually beat in the chocolate. Blend in the vanilla, salt, and rum if using. Do not add the flavoring too quickly or the buttercream might curdle. Chill until of spreading consistency, at least 2 hours or up to 1 week. If the buttercream firms too much, return to room temperature before using, about 1 hour.
4. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease the bottoms of several 9-inch round cake pans and dust with flour, tapping out the excess. Or grease and flour several large baking sheets and, using a 9-inch saucepan lid or springform pan, mark 9-inch circles on the sheets.
5. To make the batter: Beat the eggs and sugar until thick and creamy, 5 to 10 minutes. Add the vanilla and salt. Sift the flour over the top and carefully fold it in.
6. Spread about 1/4 cup of the batter evenly over the bottom of the prepared pans or over each circle on the baking sheets.
7. Bake until the edges begin to color, 5 to 7 minutes. Loosen with a spatula, invert onto a rack, and let cool. Wipe the pans, regrease, dust with flour, and repeat until there are 7 or 8 matching layers.
8. To make the caramel if using: Stir all the caramel ingredients in a small saucepan over low heat until the sugar dissolves, about 5 minutes. Stop stirring, increase the heat to medium, and cook, swirling the pan occasionally, until the syrup turns a deep amber color. Do not burn.
9. Using a lightly oiled metal spatula, spread all of the caramel evenly over one of the cake layers. Let set slightly (do not let it harden), then use an oiled knife to cut just the caramel into 8 to 10 wedges (indicating where the cake will be sliced).
10.To assemble: Place a cake layer on a serving plate, spread with 1/8-inch thick layer of buttercream, then place a second layer on top. Repeat layering the buttercream and cake layers. Cover the top of the cake with buttercream. If using the caramel layer, place on top of the cake. Cover the sides of the cake with buttercream. Chill. Store in the refrigerator for up to 1 day or in the freezer. Let stand at room temperature for at least 30 minutes before serving.
Oblong Layer Cake: Divide the batter between two 15 1/2-by-10 1/2-inch jelly roll pans and bake. After cooling the cakes, cut each lengthwise into 3 equal pieces to make a 6-layer cake.

Coconut Bread 
4 cups sweetened flaked coconut (10 ounces)
2 cups self-rising flour (not cake flour)
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
2 large eggs

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour a 9- by 5- by 3-inch loaf pan, knocking out excess flour.
Spread 3 cups coconut in a large shallow baking pan (1 inch deep) and toast in middle of oven, stirring occasionally, until evenly golden brown, 20 to 25 minutes. (Watch flakes carefully; edges burn quickly.) Cool completely in pan on a rack, about 15 minutes, then grind in a food processor to a coarse meal, about 40 seconds (you will have about 1 1/4 cups). Leave oven on.
Stir together self-rising flour, ground coconut, and remaining cup (untoasted) coconut in a large bowl. Beat together butter and sugar in another bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale and creamy, 1 to 2 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Whisk 1 cup water into flour mixture, then add egg mixture, whisking just until well blended.
Pour batter into loaf pan, smoothing top with a spatula, and bake in middle of oven until a wooden skewer inserted in center comes out clean and top is evenly brown, 1 hour to 1 hour and 10 minutes. Cool bread to warm in pan on a rack, 10 to 15 minutes, then turn out of pan and set right side up on rack to cool completely, about 2 hours more. Cut into 1-inch-thick slices.

Gâteau au Chocolat, Noix et Raisins Secs 
3/4 cup raisins
1 tablespoon Cointreau
1 cup walnuts, lightly toasted
2/3 cup vanilla sugar
6 ounces (180g) top-quality bittersweet chocolate such as Lindt 70 percent
8 tablespoons (125g) unsalted butter, softened
3 large eggs
the grated zest of 1 orange
1/4 cup fresh breadcrumbs
6 ounces (180g) top-quality bittersweet chocolate, preferably Lindt
8 tablespoons (125g) unsalted butter, softened

1. Soak the raisins in the Cointreau for 30 minutes.
2. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
3. Lightly butter a 9-inch cake pan. Line the bottom with parchment paper and lightly butter the paper.
4. In a food processor combine the walnuts with 1 tablespoon of sugar and process until finely ground, but not to a paste.
5. Melt the chocolate over a water bath set over medium-high heat. When melted, remove from the heat and let cool to room temperature.
6. In a large bowl cream the butter with the remaining sugar until pale yellow and fluffy. One at a time, add the eggs, beating well after each addition. One at a time, add the ground hazelnuts, the melted chocolate, the orange zest, the bread crumbs, and the raisins with any Cointreau they haven't absorbed, mixing well after each addition.
7. Turn the mixture into the prepared cake pan and bake on the center rack of the oven until the cake has puffed sightly and has a slight crust on top, about 30 minutes. Test for doneness by pressing gently on the center of the cake—it won't spring right back and a slight indentation will remain. Remove the cake from the oven and cool on a wire rack.
8. While the cake is cooling, make the glaze. Melt the chocolate with the butter, stirring occasionally in a small, heavy-bottomed saucepan over low heat. Remove from the heat when melted, and stir to blend well. Set aside to cool. Spread evenly over the top and sides of the cooled cake.

Gingerbread Layer Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting and Candied Pistachios 
1 cup Guinness extra stout or dark beer
1 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
2 cups all purpose flour
2 tablespoons ground ginger
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/8 teaspoon ground cardamom
3 large eggs
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
3/4 cup vegetable oil
1 tablespoon minced peeled fresh ginger
1 cup finely chopped pistachios
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
2 tablespoons sugar
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 teaspoon finely grated orange peel
2 cups powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour three 8-inch-diameter cake pans. Bring stout and molasses to boil in heavy medium saucepan over high heat. Remove from heat; stir in baking soda. Let stand 1 hour to cool completely.
Whisk flour and next 6 ingredients in large bowl to blend. Whisk eggs and both sugars in medium bowl to blend. Whisk in oil, then stout mixture. Gradually whisk stout-egg mixture into flour mixture. Stir in fresh ginger.
Divide batter among prepared pans. Bake until tester inserted into centers of cakes comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans 15 minutes. Invert cakes onto racks; cool. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap each cake separately in plastic and keep at room temperature.)
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line large baking sheet with foil. Mix pistachios and corn syrup in medium bowl. Add sugar and toss to coat. Working quickly so sugar doesn't melt, spread pistachios on prepared baking sheet. Bake until pistachios are pale golden, about 8 minutes. Cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, butter, and orange peel in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in powdered sugar. Chill frosting 30 minutes.
Place 1 cake layer, rounded side up, on platter. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over. Top with second cake layer, rounded side up, then spread 3/4 cup frosting over. Top with third cake layer, flat side up. Spread top and sides of cake with remaining frosting. Sprinkle top of cake with candied pistachios. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Bring to room temperature before serving.) Cut cake into wedges and serve.

Irish Currant and Raisin Cake 
2 1/4 cups unbleached all-purpose flour (spoon flour into dry-measure cups and level off) plus 1 tablespoon
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
1 large egg, at room temperature
1/2 cup currants
1/2 cup golden raisins
3/4 cup buttermilk or milk
One 2-inch-deep 8-inch round cake pan, buttered and bottom lined with parchment or wax paper

1. Set a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees .
2. Stir together the 2 1/4 cups flour, the baking powder, baking soda, and salt in a bowl.
3. In the bowl of a heavy-duty mixer, beat the butter and sugar with the paddle on medium speed until soft and light, about 5 minutes. Add the egg, beating until smooth.
4. Decrease the mixer speed to low and beat in half the flour mixture. Stop and scrape down the bowl and beater with a rubber spatula. Beat in the buttermilk, then the remaining flour mixture.
5. Give the batter a final mix with the rubber spatula.
6. Toss the currants and raisins with the remaining 1 tablespoon flour and fold them into the batter. Scrape the batter into the prepared pan and smooth the top.
7. Bake for about 45-55 minutes, or until the cake is well risen and deep gold and a toothpick inserted in the center emerges clean.
8. Cool in the pan on a rack for about 30 minutes, then invert the cake onto a rack and remove the pan and paper. Invert the cake onto another rack and cool completely.
Storage: Wrap in plastic and keep at room temperature, or double-wrap and freeze for longer storage.

Almond Macaroons 
1 cup whole almonds with skins
2/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 large egg white
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/8 teaspoon almond extract

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F.
Finely grind 3/4 cup almonds with sugar, flour, and salt in a food processor, then add egg white and extracts and pulse until evenly moistened.
Form rounded teaspoons of dough into 1-inch balls with lightly floured hands and arrange 1 1/2 inches apart on a greased large baking sheet. Press a whole almond in center of each ball to flatten cookie slightly (to about 1/2 inch thick).
Bake in middle of oven until edges are firm to the touch, 18 to 20 minutes, then transfer to a rack to cool.

Pine Nut Torta with Marsala-Poached Autumn Fruit 
3 cups water
1 cup imported sweet Marsala
1/4 cup sugar
1 cinnamon stick
1 4-inch-long strip lemon peel (yellow part only)
2 cups pitted prunes
2 cups dried apricots
3 large egg yolks
1 large egg
1 1/2 teaspoons (packed) grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 cups unbleached all purpose flour
3/4 cup pine nuts (about 3 1/2 ounces)
Powdered sugar

Combine 3 cups water, Marsala, sugar, cinnamon stick, and lemon peel in heavy large saucepan. Bring to boil, stirring until sugar dissolves. Add prunes and apricots. Reduce heat to medium; simmer until fruit is just soft but not mushy, stirring frequently, about 25 minutes. Using slotted spoon, transfer fruit to medium bowl. Boil liquid until syrupy, about 5 minutes. Pour syrup over fruit. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover; chill. Bring to room temperature before serving.)
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Butter and flour 10-inch-diameter springform pan. Whisk egg yolks, egg, lemon peel, vanilla, and salt in small bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter and 1 cup sugar in medium bowl until pale and creamy. Gradually add flour, beating until mixture resembles coarse meal. Using rubber spatula, gently stir egg mixture into butter mixture (batter will be thick). Spoon batter into prepared pan; smooth top (cake will be thin). Sprinkle pine nuts over top; press lightly to adhere.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Transfer cake to rack. Run small knife around cake edges to loosen. Remove pan sides. Cool cake completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and store at room temperature.)
Sprinkle cake with powdered sugar. Serve with poached fruit.

Coconut Crisps 
1 tablespoon unsalted butter, melted
1 tablespoon vegetable oil
2 (17- by 12-inch) phyllo sheets, thawed if frozen, covered with 2 overlapping pieces of plastic wrap and then a damp kitchen towel
2 teaspoons sugar
1/3 cup sweetened flaked coconut

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Stir together butter and oil. Arrange 1 phyllo sheet on a work surface with a long side of phyllo nearest you, keeping remaining sheet covered. Brush with some butter mixture and sprinkle with 1 teaspoon sugar. Top with remaining sheet of phyllo, then brush with remaining butter mixture and sprinkle with remaining teaspoon sugar.
Cut phyllo in half crosswise and stack. Cut stack into quarters and cut each quarter diagonally twice (in an X) to form 4 triangles (for a total of 16 triangles).
Arrange triangles, spaced evenly, on 2 ungreased baking sheets and sprinkle with coconut. Bake in middle and lower third of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until golden and crisp, 5 to 6 minutes total.

Strawberry Shortcakes with Mint and Whipped Cream 
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
5 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons chilled whipping cream
1 tablespoon grated orange peel
3 1-pint baskets strawberries, hulled, sliced
1/2 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons thinly sliced fresh mint
1/2 teaspoon grated orange peel
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line baking sheet with parchment paper. Blend flour, 4 tablespoons sugar, baking powder, and salt in processor 5 seconds. Add butter. Using on/off turns, process until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add 1 cup cream and orange peel. Process just until moist clumps form. Gather dough into ball; gently knead 5 turns. Roll out dough on floured surface to 3/4-inch-thick round. Using 3-inch-diameter cutter, cut out 3 rounds. Gather dough and reroll as needed to make 3 more 3-inch rounds. Arrange rounds on prepared sheet. Brush with 2 tablespoons cream; sprinkle with 1 tablespoon sugar.
Bake biscuits until pale golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool 15 minutes. (Can be made 2 hours ahead.)
Combine berries, 1/2 cup sugar, mint, and orange peel in medium bowl; stir to blend. Let stand at least 30 minutes and up to 2 hours, stirring occasionally.
Combine cream, vanilla, and remaining 3 tablespoons sugar in large bowl. Whisk until soft peaks form.
Cut biscuits horizontally in half. Place 1 biscuit bottom in each of 6 bowls. Top each with berries, then sweetened whipped cream and biscuit top.

Apple-Cranberry Shortcakes with Cinnamon Cream 
2 cups all purpose flour
3 1/2 tablespoons plus 1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
11 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
3/4 cup whole-milk yogurt
5 sweet apples
1 cup fresh cranberries
2 cups chilled whipping cream
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Line baking sheet with parchment. Combine flour, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, baking powder, baking soda, and salt in processor. Add 8 tablespoons butter; using on/off turns, cut in until mixture resembles coarse meal. Transfer to large bowl. Add yogurt; mix with fork until dry ingredients are evenly moistened. Turn dough out onto floured work surface. Knead 5 turns to combine. Roll into 12x5-inch rectangle. Cut into 10 squares. Arrange squares on prepared baking sheet, spacing apart. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 18 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool 15 minutes.
Melt 3 tablespoons butter in large skillet over medium-high heat. Add apples; sauté 5 minutes. Sprinkle with 1/2 cup sugar. Add cranberries; sauté until cranberries pop, about 5 minutes. Using slotted spoon, transfer fruit to bowl. Add 1/3 cup cream to juices in skillet; boil until liquid reduces to 1/4 cup. Return fruit to skillet; stir to coat.
Beat 1 2/3 cups cream, 1 1/2 tablespoons sugar, 1 teaspoon cinnamon, and vanilla extract in medium bowl to soft peaks. Cut shortcakes horizontally in half. Place 1 bottom half in each of 10 bowls. Top with fruit, cream, and shortcake tops.

Chocolate Truffle Cake 
14 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
1/4 cup light corn syrup
6 large eggs
3/4 cup sugar
Raspberry sorbet

Line 8-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with 3 layers of plastic wrap, overlapping sides of pan by 8 inches. Melt bittersweet chocolate, butter, and corn syrup in heavy medium saucepan over low heat, stirring until smooth. Remove from heat. Using electric mixer, beat eggs and sugar in large bowl until doubled in volume and pale yellow in color, about 3 minutes. Fold chocolate mixture into egg mixture (mixture will deflate). Pour mixture into prepared cake pan. Cover cake tightly with overhanging plastic wrap.
Place steamer rack on bottom of large pot. Pour enough water into pot to almost reach bottom of steamer rack; bring to boil. Place cake on steamer rack. Cover pot and steam until tester inserted into center comes out with a few moist crumbs attached, adding more hot water to pot if necessary, about 2 hours. Remove cake from steamer. Refrigerate until cold and firm, at least 6 hours. (Cake can be prepared up to 3 days ahead of time. Keep refrigerated.) Slice cake with knife dipped into hot water and wiped dry. Top each serving with scoop of raspberry sorbet and serve immediately.

Spiced Pumpkin Cake with Caramel Icing 
3 cups sifted cake flour (sifted, then measured)
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
1/8 teaspoon ground cloves
2 cups sugar
1 cup canola oil or vegetable oil
4 large eggs
1 15-ounce can pure pumpkin
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup dark rum
6 tablespoons raisins
6 tablespoons dried sweetened cranberries
3/4 cup heavy whipping cream
6 ounces cream cheese, cut into small pieces, room temperature
2 1/4 cups sugar
2/3 cup water
1/2 cup (1 stick) plus 1 tablespoon unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 1/2 cups walnuts, toasted, chopped
1 teaspoon grated orange peel
Thin orange peel strips
Vanilla ice cream

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Sift first 8 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and oil in large bowl until well blended, about 2 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add pumpkin and vanilla; beat until blended. Gradually add dry ingredients; beat just until incorporated. Divide batter between prepared pans; smooth top with spatula.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool completely in pans on racks. Run small knife around cakes to loosen. Turn cakes out onto racks.
Stir rum, raisins, and dried cranberries in small saucepan over low heat just until warm, about 1 minute. Remove from heat; let stand 30 minutes. Drain, reserving rum and fruit separately.
Whisk whipping cream and cream cheese in small bowl until smooth. Combine sugar and 2/3 cup water in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat to high; boil without stirring until syrup is deep amber color, occasionally brushing down sides of pan with pastry brush dipped in water and swirling pan, about 10 minutes. Slowly and carefully whisk in cream cheese mixture (caramel mixture will bubble vigorously). Add butter; whisk until mixture is smooth, about 1 minute. Remove from heat; cool caramel icing 10 minutes, whisking occasionally.
Pour 3/4 cup warm caramel icing mixture into bowl. Mix in half of reserved dried fruit mixture, 1 cup walnuts, and grated orange peel. Place 1 cake layer on 8-inch-diameter tart pan bottom or cardboard round. Brush top of cake with half of reserved rum. Spread caramel-nut filling over, leaving 1/2-inch plain border at edges. Top with second cake layer, flat side down; press to adhere. Brush top of cake with remaining rum; let stand 10 minutes to allow rum to soak in.
Pour generous 1/2 cup warm caramel icing onto cake and, if necessary, spread over top with offset spatula to cover. Refrigerate cake and remaining caramel icing until icing is firm enough to spread and to adhere to sides of cake, stirring occasionally, about 1 hour.
Transfer 3/4 cup chilled icing to small bowl and chill for sauce. Using offset spatula, spread remaining 1 cup icing evenly over sides of cake to cover. Mix remaining dried fruit mixture and remaining 1/2 cup walnuts in another small bowl. Sprinkle mixture in 1 1/2-inch-wide border around top edge of cake. Cover cake with cake dome and chill at least 6 hours. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep cake and caramel icing for sauce chilled separately.)
Place cake on platter. Garnish with orange peel. Rewarm icing over low heat just until pourable. Serve cake cold with ice cream and warm caramel sauce.

Lemon Icing 
1/2 cup powdered sugar
3 teaspoons (about) fresh lemon juice

Place sugar in small bowl. Mix in lemon juice as needed to make icing just thin enough to drip off fork.

Honey, Anise and Almond Biscotti 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup honey
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
2 teaspoons aniseed, crushed
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups slivered almonds (about 6 ounces), lightly toasted

Whisk first 4 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Whisk oil, sugar, honey, eggs, lemon peel, aniseed and vanilla in large bowl until smooth. Stir in flour mixture, then nuts. Cover and refrigerate dough until well chilled, about 3 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 2 large baking sheets. Spoon out dough in 3 equal strips (2 on one sheet, spaced well apart, and 1 on second sheet). Using well-floured hands, shape strips into 2-inch-wide by 1-inch-high logs.
Bake logs until just springy to touch, switching and turning pans after 10 minutes, about 20 minutes total (logs will spread). Cool 15 minutes on sheets. Maintain oven temperature.
Using large spatula, gently transfer logs to work surface. Using serrated knife, cut each log on diagonal into §-inch-thick slices. Arrange slices, cut side down, on baking sheets. Bake until bottom side browns, about 7 minutes. Turn cookies over. Bake until bottom side browns, about 7 minutes longer. Transfer to racks and cool (cookies will crisp as they cool). (Can be made 2 weeks ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Peanut Butter Mousse Cake 
1 9-ounce package chocolate wafer cookies
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, melted
1 18-ounce jar creamy peanut butter
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
2 cups powdered sugar
2 tablespoons vanilla extract
2 cups chilled whipping cream
1/2 cup whipping cream
1/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon instant espresso powder
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Blend cookies, sugar and cinnamon in processor to fine crumbs. Add melted butter and blend well using on/off turns. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and up sides of 10-inch-diameter springform pan. Bake until crust starts to puff and darkens slightly, about 15 minutes. Cool.
Using electric mixer, beat peanut butter and cream cheese in large bowl to blend. Add powdered sugar and 2 tablespoons vanilla extract and beat until well blended. Using clean dry beaters, beat 2 cups whipping cream in medium bowl until stiff peaks form; fold into peanut butter mixture in 4 additions. Spoon filling into prepared crust.
Combine 1/2 cup cream, 1/4 cup sugar and espresso powder in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium heat until espresso powder and sugar dissolve and mixture comes to simmer. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and whisk until melted and smooth. Whisk in 1 teaspoon vanilla. Cool topping 5 minutes. Spread topping evenly over filling. Refrigerate cake until cold, about 4 hours. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover cake and keep refrigerated.) Serve cake chilled.

Coconut-Fudge Cheesecake 
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
3/4 cup sliced almonds, toasted
1/2 cup sweetened shredded coconut, toasted
7 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
1 cup canned cream of coconut (such as Coco López)*
1 cup sweetened shredded coconut, toasted
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
4 large eggs
5 tablespoons whipping cream
5 tablespoons light corn syrup
8 ounces semisweet chocolate chips (about 1 1/3 cups)
3/4 cup sliced almonds, toasted
1/4 cup sweetened shredded coconut, toasted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Wrap foil around outside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Blend all ingredients in processor until nuts are finely ground and crumbs stick together. Press crust mixture over bottom and 2 inches up sides of prepared pan. Bake until set, about 10 minutes. Cool. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, sugar and extract in large bowl to blend. Beat in cream of coconut, shredded coconut and flour. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until just combined. Pour filling into crust. Bake until top is brown and center is almost set, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool. Cover and chill overnight.
Bring cream and syrup to simmer in medium saucepan. Remove from heat. Add chocolate chips; whisk until smooth. Cool to just lukewarm. Pour topping over cake. Sprinkle edge with almonds and coconut. Chill until topping is set, about 2 hours. (Can be made 2 days ahead; cover and refrigerate.)
*Available in the liquor department of most supermarkets nationwide.

Pear and Dried Cherry Frangipane Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3 large eggs
2/3 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup extra-light olive oil
1/3 cup whole milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups plus 1 tablespoon self-rising flour
2 large pears, peeled, cored, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 1/3 cups dried tart or Bing cherries
1 7-ounce tube almond paste
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 8-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 1/2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Line pan bottom with parchment paper; spray parchment. Using electric mixer, beat 2 eggs, 2/3 cup sugar, oil, milk, and vanilla in large bowl until smooth. Add 1 1/2 cups flour; beat just until combined. Stir in pears and cherries. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Smooth top.
Crumble almond paste into medium bowl; add cinnamon, 1 egg, 2 tablespoons sugar, and 1 tablespoon flour. Using electric mixer, beat mixture just until blended. Spoon atop cake batter. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out with small moist crumbs attached, about 1 hour 20 minutes. Run knife around pan to loosen cake. Remove pan sides. Peel off paper. Transfer cake to plate; sprinkle with powdered sugar. Serve warm or at room temperature. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cool completely. Cover; let stand at room temperature.)

Walnut and Almond Cake with Orange Syrup 
2 2/3 cups sugar
1 cup water
1 1/2 tablespoons grated orange peel
3 cups walnuts (about 12 ounces)
3 cups almonds (about 12 ounces)
16zwieback rusks, broken coarsely, or 1 cup ground graham crackers
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
12 large eggs, separated
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13x9x2-inch metal baking pan. Bring 1 cup sugar, 1 cup water and 1/2 tablespoon orange peel to boil in heavy small saucepan, stirring often; boil 2 minutes. Refrigerate syrup uncovered.
Finely grind all nuts, zwieback, cinnamon, and 1/3 cup sugar in processor. Using electric mixer, beat egg yolks, vanilla, 1/3 cup sugar, and remaining 1 tablespoon orange peel in large bowl until very thick, about 4 minutes. Using clean beaters, beat whites and salt in another large bowl to soft peaks. Gradually add 1 cup sugar; beat until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into yolk mixture, then fold in nut mixture. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 50 minutes. Spoon cold syrup over hot cake. Cool completely. Cover; let stand up to 1 day. Cut into squares or diamonds.

Chocolate-Orange Biscotti 
2 cups plus 2 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons Grand Marnier or other orange liqueur
1 tablespoon grated orange peel
1 cup pecans, lightly toasted, coarsely chopped
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) chocolate, chopped

Line large baking sheet with parchment paper. Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl to blend. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then Grand Marnier and orange peel. Add flour mixture and beat until blended. Stir in pecans and chocolate. Gather dough together; divide in half. Wrap in plastic and freeze 20 minutes to firm.
Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Using floured hands, form each dough piece into 14-inch-long, 2 1/2-inch-wide log. Transfer logs to prepared baking sheet, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake until light golden, about 30 minutes. Transfer parchment with logs to rack. Cool 20 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F.
Place 1 log on cutting board. Using serrated knife, cut log on diagonal into 1/2-inch-thick slices. Stand slices upright on baking sheet. Repeat with remaining log.
Bake biscotti until dry to touch and pale golden, about 30 minutes. Cool completely on rack. (Can be made 1 week ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Giant Chocolate Chip Cookies 
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup solid vegetable shortening
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 tablespoon sour cream
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 large eggs
1 pound (2 2/3 cups) semisweet chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Sift flour, baking soda, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and vegetable shortening in large bowl until fluffy. Add sugar, brown sugar, sour cream, and vanilla and beat to blend well. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then flour mixture. Stir in chocolate chips. Drop half of batter by generous 1/4 cupfuls onto 2 large ungreased baking sheets (5 mounds per sheet, spaced 3 inches apart). Using moistened fingertips, flatten each mound to 2 1/2-inch round.
Bake cookies until golden brown, about 14 minutes. Cool on sheets 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. Repeat with remaining batter using cooled baking sheets.

Apple Cake with Caramel Topping 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1 pound Golden Delicious apples, peeled, cored, cut into 1/3-inch cubes
2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
1 1/2 cups vegetable oil
1 cup sugar
3 large eggs
4 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 cup pecans, coarsely chopped (about 3 1/2 ounces)
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup whole milk

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 12-cup Bundt pan with nonstick spray. Sift flour, cinnamon, baking soda, and salt into medium bowl. Transfer 3 tablespoons flour mixture to Bundt pan and tilt to coat. Set pan aside. Place apples and 2 tablespoons flour mixture in another medium bowl; toss to coat apples. Combine 1 cup brown sugar, vegetable oil, 1 cup sugar, eggs, and 3 teaspoons vanilla in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat until mixture is thick, about 4 minutes. Gradually beat in remaining flour mixture. Fold apple mixture and pecans into batter; transfer to prepared Bundt pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Transfer cake in pan to rack. Let stand while making caramel.
Melt butter in heavy small skillet over medium heat. Whisk in remaining 1 cup brown sugar, then milk. Continue to whisk until topping is smooth and blended and comes to boil, about 5 minutes. Whisk in remaining 1 teaspoon vanilla. Spoon 1/4 cup hot caramel topping over warm cake in pan. Let stand until topping is absorbed into cake, about 15 minutes. Turn cake out onto platter. Pour remaining warm topping over cake. Let stand until cool, at least 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome. Let stand at room temperature.)

Orange-Pineapple Carrot Cake 
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups sugar
4 large eggs
3/4 cup frozen pineapple-orange juice concentrate, thawed
1/2 cup sour cream
1/2 cup vegetable oil
2 cups grated carrots
1 8 1/2-ounce can crushed pineapple in juice, well drained
1/2 cup raisins
1/2 cup chopped macadamia nuts
1 1/2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13x9x2-inch metal baking pan. Combine first 5 ingredients in medium bowl; whisk to blend. Using an electric mixer, beat 2 cups sugar, eggs, 1/2 cup juice concentrate, sour cream, and vegetable oil in large bowl until smooth. Beat in dry ingredients; stir in carrots, pineapple, raisins, and nuts. Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 50 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan.
Combine cream cheese, butter, and remaining 1/4 cup juice concentrate in medium bowl. Beat until blended. Add powdered sugar and beat until smooth. Spread frosting over cake. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Chill until frosting sets, then cover and keep chilled.)

Strawberry Shortcakes with Vanilla-Orange Syrup 
4 large egg yolks and 2 large egg whites
3/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons whole milk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 vanilla bean, halved lengthwise
1/3 cup sugar
1/3 cup water
1 to 1 1/2 tablespoons finely grated fresh orange zest (from 2 oranges)
1/4 cup fresh orange juice
1 pint strawberries (3/4 lb)
1/4 cup chilled heavy cream
2 teaspoons sugar
2 tablespoons sour cream
Special equipment: a 3- to 3 1/4-inch round cookie cutter

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and butter an 8- by 2-inch square metal baking pan. Line bottom of pan with parchment or wax paper, then butter paper. Dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Whisk together yolks, 1/2 cup sugar, milk, and vanilla in a large bowl until combined well. Whisk in flour and salt (batter will be thick).
Beat whites with an electric mixer until they hold soft peaks. Gradually beat in remaining 1/4 cup sugar and beat until whites hold stiff, glossy peaks.
Stir about one third of whites into batter to lighten, then fold in remaining whites in 2 more batches, gently but thoroughly.
Transfer batter to baking pan, spreading evenly, and bake in middle of oven until pale golden and a tester comes out clean, 14 to 16 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan on a rack (cake will shrink from sides of pan). When cool, run a sharp knife around side of cake if necessary and invert onto rack, then remove paper.
Scrape seeds from vanilla bean with tip of sharp knife into a small saucepan, then add pod. Add sugar, water, zest, and juice. Bring to a boil, stirring until sugar is dissolved, and boil 1 minute.
Transfer to a bowl and chill 30 minutes. Pour syrup through a fine sieve into another bowl and discard solids. Gently stir in strawberries and let stand 15 minutes.
Beat together cream, sugar, and sour cream until mixture just holds stiff peaks.
Cut 4 rounds from cake with cookie cutter.
Generously brush both sides of each round with syrup from strawberry mixture and arrange, darker sides up, on plates. Spoon strawberries onto rounds and let stand 5 minutes to allow more syrup to soak into cake. Top rounds with dollops of cream and drizzle with remaining syrup.

Chocolate, Almond, and Dried Cranberry Biscotti 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1 cup dried cranberries
1 cup sliced almonds
8 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), finely chopped (optional)

Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Sift first 5 ingredients into large bowl. Whisk eggs and vanilla in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat eggs and melted butter into dry ingredients. Stir in cranberries and almonds.
Turn dough out onto floured surface. Using floured hands, divide dough into 3 equal pieces. Shape each into 8x2x3/4-inch log. Place 2 logs on 1 baking sheet, spacing evenly, and 1 log on second sheet.
Bake logs 12 minutes. Reverse position of baking sheets. Bake logs until firm and dry to touch, about 12 minutes longer. Remove from oven. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Transfer logs to work surface. Using serrated knife, cut hot logs diagonally into 1/2-inch-thick slices. Place slices, cut side down, on same baking sheets. Bake biscotti until dry and slightly darker, about 10 minutes. Transfer to racks; cool.
If desired, stir white chocolate in bowl set over saucepan of barely simmering water until smooth. Remove from over water. Dip biscotti 1 at a time into chocolate, holding cookie at angle and coating 1 inch of each. Return to same baking sheets. Chill until chocolate is set, about 20 minutes. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Arrange between sheets of waxed paper in airtight containers; store at room temperature.)

Pear-Cornmeal Shortcakes with Oven-Roasted Pears 
4 firm Anjou or Bosc pears (about 1 3/4 pounds), peeled, halved, cored, each half cut into 6 wedges
1/2 cup strained apricot preserves
6 tablespoons dark brown sugar
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 1/2 tablespoons water
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 cup fresh or frozen cranberries
1 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup yellow cornmeal
3 tablespoons sugar
1 1/4 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
6 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
6 tablespoons chilled buttermilk
1 large egg, beaten to blend (for glaze)
1 1/4 cups chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Combine first 6 ingredients in 13x9x2-inch glass baking dish; toss to blend. Cover dish with foil and bake until pears are tender, stirring occasionally, about 40 minutes. Uncover. Mix in cranberries and bake until cranberries are tender but still hold shape, about 15 minutes. Cool fruit mixture. Maintain oven temperature.
Line baking sheet with parchment paper. Blend flour, cornmeal, 3 tablespoons sugar, baking powder, salt and baking soda in processor. Add butter; using on/off turns, blend until butter is cut into pea-size pieces. Add buttermilk; using on/off turns, blend until dough comes together. Pat out dough on floured surface to scant 3/4-inch thickness. Using 2 3/4-inch-diameter cutter, cut out 4 biscuits. Gather scraps; pat out to scant 3/4-inch thickness. Cut out 2 more biscuits.
Arrange biscuits on prepared sheet; brush with beaten egg. Bake until golden brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 15 minutes.
Beat cream and powdered sugar in medium bowl to stiff peaks. Cut biscuits horizontally in half. Place bottoms on plates. Top each with pear mixture, whipped cream, then biscuit tops.

Claire's Mandelbrot 
3 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
3/4 cup vegetable oil
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/4 cups walnuts (4 oz), chopped
3/4 cup semisweet mini chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl.
Whisk together eggs, oil, and vanilla in another bowl until combined, then stir oil mixture into flour mixture until combined well. (Dough will be crumbly.) Stir in walnuts and chocolate chips. Transfer mixture to a lightly floured surface and knead until a dough forms.
Quarter dough and firmly press each piece into a 10- by 2-inch log. Arrange logs 2 inches apart on an ungreased large baking sheet.
Bake in middle of oven until golden, about 30 minutes. Leave oven on.
Loosen logs from baking sheet with a metal spatula, then transfer to a cutting board and cool 5 minutes. Cut logs crosswise with a large heavy knife into 1/2-inch-wide slices and arrange on baking sheet, standing upright, 1/4 inch apart. Bake cookies in middle of oven until golden all over with firm centers, 10 to 12 minutes. Transfer to a rack to cool completely. (Cookies will crisp as they cool.)

Chocolate Hazelnut Cakes 
8 ounces bittersweet chocolate
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate
4 ounces toasted hazelnuts
3 tablespoons confectioner's sugar
1/4 cup premium-quality Dutch-process cocoa powder
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup plus 5 tablespoons granulated sugar
1/3 cup unsweetened hazelnut paste (available at specialty stores)
6 eggs, separated
2 teaspoons strong brewed espresso, cooled completely
2 teaspoons Frangelico (hazelnut liqueur)
2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract

1 Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Spray twelve 3-inch cake molds or one 9-inch springform pan lightly with nonstick cooking spray and set aside.
2 Fill the bottom of a double boiler one-third full with water and bring to a simmer over medium-low heat. Place a medium stainless-steel bowl over the water and melt the chocolates together, stirring constantly. Once melted, set aside to cool.
3 In the bowl of a food processor, pulse the hazelnuts with the confectioners' sugar and cocoa to form a fine, sand-like mixture.
4 In an electric mixer, beat the butter and 3/4 cup of the granulated sugar until very light and fluffy. Beat in the hazelnut paste, scraping down the sides of the bowl with a spatula, then beat in the egg yolks, one at a time. Beat in the espresso, Frangelico, and vanilla extract, followed by the melted chocolate. Fold in the nut mixture.
5 In a separate mixing bowl, use the whip attachment to beat the egg whites until foamy. Gradually add the remaining 5 tablespoons of sugar and continue beating until soft peaks form. Using a rubber spatula, gently fold the egg whites into the cake batter. Place the prepared molds on a greased baking sheet and divide the batter evenly among them.
6 Bake the cakes just until they puff and crack slightly, about 14 minutes for the cake molds (45 to 50 minutes if using the springform pan). Remove from the oven and cool in the molds on a wire rack. When the cakes are almost completely cool, gently remove the molds, then chill in the refrigerator until firm. The cakes will last for up to 1 week, refrigerated in an airtight container.

Pumpkin-Apple Streusel Cake 
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
4 cups diced peeled cored Granny Smith apples (about 4 large)
3 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
11/2 cups all purpose flour
1 cup (firmly packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces, room temperature
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup canned pure pumpkin
1/3 cup sour cream
2 tablespoons sugar
2 teaspoons pumpkin pie spice
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 large eggs
Vanilla ice cream

Melt butter in large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Add apples; sauté until apples begin to brown, about 5 minutes. Add sugar and cinnamon and sauté until golden brown, about 3 minutes longer. Cool.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Combine flour, brown sugar, butter, and salt in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat until mixture resembles coarse meal. Set aside 2/3 cup of mixture for topping. Beat pumpkin, sour cream, 2 tablespoons sugar, spice, and baking soda into remaining flour mixture, beating just until smooth. Beat in eggs. Transfer batter to pan. Scatter apples evenly over top. Sprinkle reserved topping over apples.
Bake cake until topping is golden brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 20 minutes. Run knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides from cake. Transfer cake to platter. (Can be made 6 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature.) Serve warm or at room temperature with ice cream.

Twelfth Night or King's Cake 
2 Pounds of the Best Flour
12 Eggs
A Cupful of Sugar
A Pound of the Best Butter
1/2 Ounce of Yeast
1/2 Ounce of Salt
Candies to Decorate

To make the Cake, take a pound and a half of the above-mentioned quality of flour, and put it in a wooden bread trough. Make a hole in the center of the flour, and put in a half ounce of yeast, dissolved in a little warm water.Add milk or tepid water to make the dough, using milk if you want it to be very rich and delicate, and water if you have not the milk. Knead and mix the flour with one hand, while adding milk or water with the other. Make a dough that is neither too stiff or too soft, and when perfectly smooth set the dough to rise in a moderately warm place, covering with a cloth. Remember that if you use milk to make the dought it must be scalded, that is, must be heated to the boiling point, and then allowed to grow tepid.
Let the dough rise for five or six hours, and, when increased to twice its bulk, take it and add the reserved half pound of flour, into which you will have sifted the salt. Add six eggs, beaten very light with the sugar and butter, and mix all well together, kneading lightly with your hands, and adding more eggs if the dough is a little stiff.
Then knead the dough by turning it over on itself three times, and set to rise again for an hour or three-quarters of an hour. Cover with a cloth. At the end of this time take it up and work it again lightly, and then form into a great ring, leaving of course, a hole in the center. Pat gently and flatten a little. Have ready a baking pan, with a buttered sheet of paper in it, and set the central roll in the middle.
Cover the pan with a clean, stiff cloth, and set the Cake to rise for an hour longer. When well risen, set in an oven a few degrees cooler than that used for baking bread (360 degrees ); let bake for an hour and a half; if medium, an hour, and if very small, a half hour. Glace the Brioche lightly with a beaten egg, spread lightly over the top before placing in the oven. Decorate with dragees (French: a small candy), caramels, etc.

S'mores Coffee and Fudge Ice Cream Cake 
16 whole graham crackers (about 8 ounces)
1 cup whole almonds, toasted
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1 1/2 quarts coffee ice cream, softened until spreadable
Fudge Sauce
1 7-ounce jar marshmallow creme
2 cups miniature marshmallows

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Finely grind graham crackers, toasted almonds and 3 tablespoons sugar in processor. Add 1/2 cup melted butter; process mixture until moist crumbs form. Press graham cracker mixture onto bottom and up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Bake crust until edges are golden, about 12 minutes. Cool graham cracker crust completely.
Spread 2 cups softened ice cream in crust. Spoon 3/4 cup cooled Fudge Sauce over. Freeze until sauce is just set, about 10 minutes. Refrigerate or freeze remaining ice cream as necessary to prevent ice cream from melting. Repeat layering with 2 cups ice cream, then 3/4 cup sauce. Freeze until sauce is just set. Spread remaining 2 cups ice cream over. Cover and freeze cake overnight. Refrigerate remaining Fudge Sauce.
Preheat broiler. Warm remaining Fudge Sauce in small saucepan over low heat. Remove from heat. Place cake in pan on baking sheet. Spread marshmallow creme over top of cake. Sprinkle miniature marshmallows over in single layer. Broil just until marshmallows are deep brown, watching closely to avoid burning, about 1 minute. Run knife between pan sides and cake to loosen. Remove pan sides. Cut cake into wedges. Serve cake immediately with warm Fudge Sauce.

Chocolate-Dipped Macaroons 
5 large egg whites
1/2 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
1 1/3 cups sugar
4 cups long-shred unsweetened coconut (about 6 ounces), lightly toasted
3/4 cup slivered almonds, toasted, cooled, ground
12 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped

Preheat oven to 275 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Place egg whites in large bowl; scrape in seeds from vanilla bean. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites until soft peaks form. Gradually add sugar, beating until meringue is very thick (similar to marshmallow creme), about 5 minutes. Fold in coconut, then almonds. Drop batter by rounded tablespoonfuls onto prepared sheets, spacing mounds 1 1/2 inches apart.
Bake macaroons until pale beige outside and dry-looking (insides will still be soft), about 25 minutes. Transfer baking sheets to racks; cool macaroons completely. Transfer macaroons to work surface; re-line pans with clean parchment.
Place chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water. Stir chocolate until smooth; remove from over water. Dip bottom of 1 macaroon into melted chocolate to depth of 1/4 inch. Place on prepared sheet, chocolate side down. Repeat dipping with remaining macaroons. Chill until chocolate is firm, about 1 hour. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated. Let macaroons stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.)

Carrot-Coconut Cupcakes with Cream Cheese Frosting 
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup vegetable oil
2 large eggs
1 cup all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
2 8-ounce cans crushed pineapple in juice, drained
1 cup grated peeled carrots
3/4 cup (lightly packed) sweetened flaked coconut
1/4 cup chopped pecans
1 1/2 ounces imported white chocolate, chopped (about 1/4 cup)
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1 cup powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 12-cup muffin tin with muffin papers. Whisk sugar, oil, and eggs in large bowl to blend. Whisk flour, baking soda, cinnamon, salt, and nutmeg in medium bowl to blend. Stir pineapple, carrots, coconut, and pecans in another medium bowl to blend. Stir flour mixture into egg mixture until just blended. Fold in carrot mixture. Spoon batter into prepared muffin cups, dividing equally. Bake cupcakes until tops are golden brown and tester inserted into centers comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Remove cupcakes from pan and cool completely on rack.
Melt white chocolate in top of double boiler over barely simmering water until melted and smooth. Remove from over water. Using on/off turns, blend cream cheese, butter, lemon peel, and melted white chocolate in processor until smooth. Add powdered sugar; process until smooth. Spread frosting on cupcakes. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)

Giant Coconut Layer Cake 
2 tablespoons cornstarch
2 tablespoons water
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups whipping cream
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter
2 1/4 cups sweetened flaked coconut
1/4 cup sour cream
3 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 1/4 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
5 large eggs
1 1/3 cups whipping cream
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups powdered sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 cups sweetened flaked coconut, toasted

Stir cornstarch, 2 tablespoons water, and vanilla in small bowl to dissolve cornstarch. Bring cream, sugar, and butter to boil in heavy medium saucepan. Add cornstarch mixture and bring to boil. Remove from heat and stir in coconut. Cool completely. Mix in sour cream. Cover and refrigerate overnight.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour three 9-inch round cake pans. Whisk flour, baking powder and salt in large bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in another large bowl to blend. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in cream and vanilla. Stir flour mixture into butter mixture. Divide batter equally among pans. Bake until tester inserted into center of cakes comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool completely.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl to blend. Beat in powdered sugar and vanilla extract.
Place 1 cake layer on cake plate. Top with half of filling. Place second cake layer atop filling. Top with remaining filling. Place third cake layer atop filling. Spread frosting over top and sides of cake. Pat toasted coconut over top and sides of cake, pressing gently to adhere. (Can be prepared up to 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Let stand at room temperature 3 hours before serving.)

Vanilla-Citrus Tea Ring 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups self-rising flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons grated orange peel
1 1/2 tablespoons grated lemon peel
3 large eggs
1 cup extra-light olive oil or vegetable oil
1 cup buttermilk
1 tablespoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously coat 12-cup Bundt pan with nonstick spray. Whisk flour, sugar, orange peel, and lemon peel in large bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat eggs in another large bowl until thick, about 4 minutes. Gradually beat in oil, buttermilk, and vanilla. Add flour mixture and beat until just blended.
Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 45 minutes.
Cool cake in pan on rack 20 minutes. Invert onto platter; cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.)

Coconut Bundt Cake with Powdered-Sugar Glaze 
3 cups cake flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 1/2 cups sugar
6 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon coconut extract
1 1/4 cups canned unsweetened coconut milk
2 cups (packed) sweetened flaked coconut (about 7 ounces)
1 3/4 cups powdered sugar
Additional sweetened flaked coconut (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter 12-cup Bundt pan; dust pan with flour. Stir 3 cups cake flour and salt in medium bowl to blend. Beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add 2 1/2 cups sugar, beating until well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then both extracts. Beat in flour mixture in 4 additions alternately with 1 cup coconut milk in 3 additions. Fold in 2 cups flaked coconut. Transfer batter to prepared pan; smooth top.
Bake cake until top is golden brown and tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Cool cake in pan 5 minutes. Turn cake out onto rack; cool completely.
Whisk powdered sugar and remaining 1/4 cup coconut milk in medium bowl to blend. Spoon glaze over cake. Top with additional coconut, if desired.

Crème Fraîche Cheesecake with Honey-Rum-Roasted Pineapple 
1 cup graham cracker crumbs
1/4 cup unsalted butter, melted
1 tablespoon sugar
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
2 large eggs
3/4 cup crème fraîche or sour cream
1 extra-sweet pineapple, peeled, cut into 1/2-inch-thick rounds, cored
1 cup water
1/4 cup honey
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons dark rum

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Blend all ingredients in bowl. Press mixture over bottom of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 23/4-inch sides. Bake until golden, about 12 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool. Wrap outside of pan with 2 layers of foil. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in sugar. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean and blend 1 minute. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Mix in crème fraîche. Transfer filling to crust. Place cheesecake in roasting pan. Add enough hot water to roasting pan to come 1 inch up sides of springform pan.
Bake cake until top is dry-looking and slightly puffed, about 1 hour. Turn off oven. Let cake cool in closed oven 1 hour. Remove from water bath. Refrigerate uncovered until cold, at least 6 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.)
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Place pineapple rings on large rimmed baking sheet. Boil remaining ingredients in small saucepan 3 minutes, stirring occasionally. Pour syrup over pineapple. Roast pineapple 12 minutes. Turn rings over; roast until tender and syrup thickens, turning rings every 5 minutes, about 20 minutes longer. Cool pineapple on sheet. Cut into 1/3-inch cubes; transfer pineapple and syrup to bowl. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Chill.)
Drain pineapple, reserving syrup. Cover top of cheesecake with some pineapple; stir remainder back into syrup. Serve cake, passing remaining pineapple in syrup separately.

Lemon Pudding Cake 
2 large lemons
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
Rounded 1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
3 large eggs, separated
1 1/3 cups whole milk

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Finely grate 1 tablespoon zest from lemons, then squeeze 1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons juice.
Whisk together flour, salt, and 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar in a large bowl. Whisk together yolks, milk, zest, and juice in a small bowl and add to flour mixture, whisking until just combined.
Beat whites in another large bowl with an electric mixer until they hold soft peaks. Beat in remaining 1/4 cup sugar, a little at a time, and continue to beat until whites hold stiff, glossy peaks. Whisk about one fourth of whites into batter to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly (batter will be thin).
Pour into a buttered 1 1/2-quart ceramic gratin or other shallow baking dish and bake in a hot water bath (see Tips, page 156) until puffed and golden, 45 to 50 minutes.
Transfer to a rack. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Walnut Cheesecakes with Tokay Syrup 
1/3 cup Grape Nuts cereal
3 tablespoons chopped walnuts, toasted
2 pitted dates
1/2 teaspoon finely grated fresh lemon zest
1/8 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup 1% cottage cheese
4 oz reduced-fat cream cheese
2 tablespoons sugar
1 large egg white
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 teaspoon finely grated fresh lemon zest
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
3 tablespoons sugar
1/3 cup water
2 tablespoons Tokay or Sauternes

Preheat oven to 300¿F.
Pulse crust ingredients in a food processor until crumbly but moist.
Lightly oil 6 (1/3-cup) muffin cups and line bottoms with rounds of parchment or wax paper. Divide crust mixture among muffin cups and firmly press into an even layer on bottoms.
Pur¿cottage cheese in food processor until completely smooth, scraping down bowl several times. Add remaining filling ingredients and blend until smooth. Spoon into muffin cups. <p.>Bake cheesecakes in a hot water bath in middle of oven until firm, 20 to 25 minutes. Remove muffin pan and cool on a rack. Chill, covered, 2 hours.</p.>
Bring sugar and water to a boil in a small saucepan over high heat, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Boil until reduced to about 1/4 cup. Stir in Tokay and transfer to a bowl. Cover and chill.
Run a wet small knife around edges of cheesecakes and invert onto a baking sheet. Serve drizzled with syrup.

Lemon Pudding Cake with Cranberry Syrup 
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sugar
3 large eggs, separated
1 cup 1% milk
Finely grated zest of 1 large lemon
5 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/3 cup sugar
3/4 cup fresh or thawed frozen cranberries, chopped
1/2 cup water

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, salt, and 1/2 cup sugar in a bowl. Whisk together yolks, milk, zest, and juice and add to dry ingredients, whisking until combined well.
Beat whites in a large bowl with an electric mixer until they hold soft peaks, then gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar, beating, and continue to beat until whites hold stiff, glossy peaks. Whisk about one fourth of whites into batter to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly (batter will be thin).
Pour batter into a lightly oiled 1 1/2-quart gratin or other shallow baking dish and bake in a hot water bath until puffed and golden, 40 to 45 minutes.
Cook sugar in a dry 1 1/2-quart heavy saucepan over moderate heat, undisturbed, until it begins to melt. Continue to cook, stirring occasionally with a fork, until sugar is melted and turns a deep golden caramel. Tilt pan and carefully add cranberries and water (caramel will harden and vigorously steam). Simmer over moderately low heat, stirring, until caramel is completely dissolved, then pour syrup through a very fine sieve into a heatproof bowl, pressing hard on solids. Serve pudding cake with syrup.

Fresh Apricot Upside-Down Cake 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
10 or 11 small (2- to 2 1/4-inch) fresh apricots (1 1/4 lb), halved lengthwise and pitted
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
2 large eggs at room temperature for 30 minutes
3/4 cup well-shaken buttermilk
Special equipment: a 10-inchwell-seasoned cast-iron or heavy nonstick skillet (at least 2 inches deep)

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Heat butter in skillet over moderate heat until foam subsides. Reduce heat to low and sprinkle brown sugar evenly over butter, then cook, undisturbed, 3 minutes (not all of sugar will be melted). Remove skillet from heat and arrange apricot halves, cut sides down, close together on top of brown sugar.
Sift together flour, baking powder and soda, and salt into a small bowl.
Beat together butter, sugar, and extracts in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes in a standing mixer or 3 to 4 minutes with a handheld. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then beat until mixture is creamy and doubled in volume, 2 to 3 minutes.
Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture in 3 batches alternately with buttermilk, beginning and ending with flour mixture, and beat just until combined.
Gently spoon batter over apricots and spread evenly.
If your skillet isn't ovenproof, wrap handle with heavy-duty foil (or a double layer of regular foil) before baking. Bake cake in middle of oven until golden brown and a wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean, 40 to 45 minutes.
Wearing oven mitts, immediately invert a large plate over skillet and, keeping plate and skillet firmly pressed together, invert cake onto plate. Carefully lift skillet off cake and, if necessary, replace any fruit that is stuck to bottom of skillet. Cool to warm or room temperature.

Turtle Bars 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 3/4 cups (packed) dark brown sugar
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 tablespoons whipping cream
1 cup pecan halves, toasted
3/4 cup semisweet chocolate chips (about 5 1/2 ounces)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Mix flour, 1 cup brown sugar, and 3/4 cup butter in processor until well blended and crumbly. Press mixture evenly into ungreased 9x13x2-inch metal baking dish. Bake until crust is light golden, about 15 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Meanwhile, bring remaining 3/4 cup brown sugar, 3/4 cup butter, and cream to boil in small saucepan over high heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Boil 1 minute, stirring occasionally. Remove caramel from heat.
Sprinkle pecans over crust. Pour caramel over pecans. Bake until bubbles form and color darkens, about 20 minutes. Remove from oven and sprinkle with chocolate chips. Let stand until chocolate melts, about 5 minutes. Using offset spatula, spread chocolate evenly over top. Chill bars until chocolate sets, about 20 minutes. Cut into 1-inch squares.

Lemon-Lime Pound Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3 cups all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 cups sugar
5 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lime peel
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons (about) lemon-lime soda (such as 7UP)
1 1/4 cups powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Spray 12-cup Bundt pan with nonstick spray. Whisk flour and salt in bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in sugar. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time; then beat in 1 teaspoon each lemon peel and lime peel. Beat in flour mixture in 4 additions alternately with 3/4 cup lemon-lime soda in 3 additions. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until golden on top and tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Cool cake in pan 5 minutes. Turn cake out onto rack and cool completely. Combine powdered sugar and remaining 1/2 teaspoon each lemon peel and lime peel in bowl. Whisk in enough of remaining 2 tablespoons soda to form thick smooth icing. Drizzle icing over cake.

Citrus Sponge Cake with Strawberries 
Potato starch (for dusting cake pan)
2 teaspoons vegetable oil
1/2 cup matzoh cake meal
3/4 cup potato starch
8 extra-large eggs, separated, at room temperature
1 cup sugar
1/4 cup orange juice
Juice of 1 large lemon
1 teaspoon freshly grated orange zest
1 teaspoon freshly grated lemon zest
1 1/2 teaspoons pure vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 pints strawberries, stemmed, washed, and thinly sliced
1/2 cup orange juice
1 tablespoon sugar

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly grease a 9-inch springform pan with the oil and dust with potato starch.
2. Sift the cake meal and potato starch together over a piece of foil and set aside.
3. In the bowl of an electric mixer, beat the egg yolks on medium speed for 3 minutes, until golden yellow and thick. Add the sugar slowly. Continue to beat 3 minutes more.
4. With the mixer on low, gradually add the orange juice, lemon juice, orange zest, and lemon zest. Add the vanilla and almond extract. Gradually add the matzo meal mixture to the batter. Mix gently until well blended.
5. In a clean bowl, beat the egg whites with the whisk attachment of the electric mixer until foamy. Add the salt and beat until the whites hold glossy peaks. Gently fold the egg whites into cake batter with a spatula. Pour the batter into the springform pan and bake for about 50 minutes, or until a cake tester comes out clean. Cool the cake in the pan, then loosen the sides. Cool completely.
6. Cut the cake into 12 wedges, or carefully slice the cake in half horizontally with a serrated knife and cut into 6 wedges to make 12 total wedges.
7. Toss the strawberries with the orange juice and sugar 30 minutes before serving the cake. Spoon the strawberries over each cake wedge and serve.

Frozen Mocha Cake with Chocolate Ganache Glaze 
4 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 tablespoons water
3 large eggs, separated
1/4 cup sugar
5 large egg yolks
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup Kahlúa or other coffee liqueur
1 cup chilled heavy whipping cream
2 1/2 teaspoons instant espresso powder
3 large egg whites
1/2 cup finely chopped bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate
1/2 cup whipping cream
1/4 cup Kahlúa or other coffee liqueur
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 tablespoons whole coffee beans

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Lightly butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper. Combine chocolate and 2 tablespoons water in top of double boiler set over simmering water. Stir until chocolate is smooth. Remove from over water. Transfer chocolate to large bowl; cool 5 minutes. Whisk egg yolks into chocolate. Beat whites in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Add sugar 1 tablespoon at a time, beating until stiff and glossy. Fold 1/4 of whites into chocolate to lighten. Gently fold in remaining whites in 2 additions just until combined and being careful not to deflate batter.
Divide batter between prepared pans (layers will be very thin). Bake until cakes begin to pull away from sides of pans and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 10 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on rack 1 hour. Carefully invert cakes onto 9-inch-diameter cardboard rounds or tart pan bottoms. Cool cakes completely. Peel off parchment paper.
Line 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 1 1/2-inch-high sides with plastic wrap, leaving 5-inch overhang. Whisk egg yolks, 1/4 cup sugar, and Kahlúa in medium metal bowl to blend. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water (do not allow bottom of bowl to touch water). Using electric mixer, beat until yolk mixture is thick and instant-read thermometer inserted into mixture registers 140 degrees F for 3 minutes, about 9 minutes total. Remove bowl from over water. Continue to beat mixture until cool to touch, about 3 minutes. Beat whipping cream and espresso powder in another medium bowl until firm peaks form. Fold cream mixture into yolk mixture in 2 additions. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar and beat until stiff and glossy. Gently fold whites into yolk mixture in 2 additions. Fold in chopped chocolate. Carefully place 1 cake layer in prepared pan (cake layer is very delicate). Spread filling evenly over cake (filling layer will be thick). Top with second cake layer; press gently to adhere. Fold plastic overhang over cake, then cover with foil. Freeze cake overnight. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Keep frozen.)
Bring first 3 ingredients to simmer in small saucepan. Remove from heat. Add chocolate; whisk until smooth. Transfer 1/2 cup glaze to small bowl; chill until cool and very slightly thickened but easily spreadable (if too thick, glaze will not spread smoothly on frozen cake), about 10 minutes.
Remove foil and plastic wrap from top of cake. Invert cake onto 9-inch-diameter cardboard round or tart pan bottom; place on rack set over rimmed baking sheet. Working quickly, spread thin layer of chilled glaze over top and sides of cake. Freeze until glaze is set, about 1 hour.
Rewarm remaining glaze over low heat until just warm and pourable. Transfer to 1-cup measuring cup. Pour half of glaze over top of cake. Working quickly and using offset spatula, spread glaze over top, allowing excess to run down sides of cake; spread quickly over sides (glaze will harden quickly on frozen cake). Pour remaining glaze over top of cake; spread quickly and smoothly over top and sides. Sprinkle coffee beans around top edge of cake. Freeze until firm and glaze is set, at least 4 hours. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Cover; keep frozen.)
To serve, dip long thin sharp knife into hot water, then wipe dry and cut cake into wedges, pulling knife out at bottom of cake to avoid tearing glaze and repeating for each slice.

Apple Upside-Down Biscuit Cake 
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 lb Granny Smith apples, peeled, cored, and cut into thin wedges
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
5 tablespoons cold unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1/2 cup well-shaken buttermilk
Accompaniment: crème fraîche or sour cream (optional)

Preheat oven to 425 degrees F.
Heat butter in an ovenproof 10-inch heavy skillet (preferably well-seasoned cast-iron) over moderate heat until foam subsides. Stir in brown sugar and remove from heat. Spread mixture evenly in skillet and arrange apples, overlapping, in 1 layer.
Blend flour, sugar, baking powder and soda, salt, and cinnamon in a food processor. Add butter and pulse until mixture resembles coarse meal. Transfer to a bowl and add buttermilk, stirring just until mixture is moistened.
Drop batter on top of apples and gently spread, leaving a 1-inch border around edge of skillet. (Cake needs room to expand.)
Bake cake in middle of oven until golden brown and firm to the touch, 25 to 30 minutes. Cool cake in skillet on a rack 3 minutes, then invert onto a platter. Replace any apples that stick to skillet on cake.
Serve warm.

Triple-Chocolate Biscotti 
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
8 ounces semisweet chocolate chips
1/2 cup white chocolate baking chips

Line large baking sheet with double thickness of foil. Sift flour, cocoa, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl to blend. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then vanilla. Beat in flour mixture. Stir in semisweet and white chips. Drop dough by heaping tablespoonfuls onto prepared sheet in two 10- to 11-inch-long strips, spacing 3 inches apart. Using metal spatula or wet fingertips, shape strips into 11- by 2 1/2-inch logs. Refrigerate 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Bake logs until tops are cracked and dry and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes; cool 10 minutes.
Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F. Using foil as aid, lift logs onto work surface. Line baking sheets with clean foil. Using serrated knife, gently cut warm logs crosswise into 3/4-inch-thick slices. Arrange half of slices, cut side down, on each prepared baking sheet. Bake biscotti until just dry to touch, about 8 minutes. Turn biscotti over. Bake until top is dry to touch, about 8 minutes. Cool on sheets.

Mango and Lime Chiffon Cake 
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup fresh lime juice
4 large egg yolks
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon grated peeled fresh ginger
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 11.5-ounce can mango nectar (about 1 1/2 cups)
1 1/4 cups sifted cake flour (sifted, then measured)
12 tablespoons sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 large egg yolks
1/4 cup canola oil
2 1/2 tablespoons grated lime peel
4 large egg whites
1/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon fresh lime juice
3/4 cup chilled whipping cream
2 large firm but ripe mangoes, peeled, pitted, cut into 1/4-inch-thick slices

Whisk sugar, lime juice, egg yolks, 3 whole eggs, and grated ginger in large metal bowl to blend. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water (do not allow bottom of bowl to touch water). Whisk constantly until mixture thickens and instant-read thermometer inserted into mixture registers 160 degrees F, about 6 minutes. Remove bowl from over water. Quickly add chilled butter cubes to curd; whisk until butter is melted. Press sheet of plastic wrap directly onto surface of lime-ginger curd; refrigerate curd overnight. (Lime-ginger curd can be made 3 days ahead. Keep covered and refrigerated.)
Simmer mango nectar in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat until reduced to 3/4 cup, about 20 minutes. Remove from heat. Cool mango syrup to room temperature.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Line bottom of two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides with parchment paper (do not grease cake pans or parchment paper). Sift flour, 6 tablespoons sugar, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Whisk egg yolks, canola oil, lime peel, and 6 tablespoons mango syrup in large bowl to blend (reserve remaining mango syrup for glaze). Add dry ingredients; whisk to blend.
Using electric mixer, beat egg whites in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Add remaining 6 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating until stiff and glossy. Fold 1/3 of egg whites into yolk mixture, then fold in remaining whites in 2 additions.
Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 22 minutes. Cool cakes completely in pans on rack. Run small knife around edge of pans to loosen cakes. Carefully invert cakes onto 9-inch-diameter cardboard rounds or tart pan bottoms; tap sharply on work surface if necessary to release cakes from pans. Peel off parchment paper.
Boil sugar, lime juice, and remaining 6 tablespoons mango syrup in heavy small saucepan until liquid is reduced to 1/4 cup, about 3 minutes. Chill glaze until cold, about 15 minutes. Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on platter. Spread 2 cups lime-ginger curd over top of cake (reserve remaining curd for another use). Chill cake until curd firms up slightly, about 2 hours. Top with second cake layer, flat side down, pressing gently to adhere.
Beat whipping cream and 2 tablespoons glaze in bowl until firm peaks form. Spread cream over top (not sides) of cake. Slightly overlap mango slices in concentric circles atop cream. Rewarm remaining glaze just to soften. Brush glaze over mango slices. Chill cake at least 2 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and keep chilled.)
Cut cake into wedges and serve.

Petite Rolled Vanilla Cookies 
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup powdered sugar
2 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup all purpose flour

Using electric mixer, beat 3 tablespoons butter and sugar in medium bowl until coarse meal forms. Beat in egg whites, 1 at a time, then vanilla. Add flour and beat until well blended. Melt remaining 2 tablespoons butter in small saucepan over low heat. Mix warm butter into batter.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 nonstick baking sheets. Spoon 1 heaping teaspoonful batter for each cookie onto sheets, spacing 4 inches apart and forming 3 cookies on each sheet. Using small metal offset spatula or back of spoon, spread batter for each cookie to very thin 4-inch round. Bake cookies on 1 sheet until 3/4 inch of edge is golden brown, about 5 minutes. Run thin flexible spatula under edge of 1 cookie to loosen and remove from sheet. Working quickly while cookies are still warm and flexible, roll 1 cookie around handle of wooden spoon into cylinder. Slide cookie onto work surface. Shape remaining cookies into cylinders, returning sheet to oven briefly to soften cookies if necessary.
Bake cookies on second sheet while first baking sheet cools. Repeat with remaining batter, using cool baking sheet each time. Cool rolled cookies completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Key Lime Cheesecake with Mango Ribbons 
1 1/4 cups fine graham cracker crumbs (5 oz)
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted
2 (8-oz) packages cream cheese at room temperature
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
3/4 cup fresh Key lime juice (strained from about 1 1/2 lb Key limes) or bottled
1/2 cup sour cream
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
2 1/2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
2 large firm-ripe mangoes
1 tablespoon fresh Key lime juice (strained) or bottled
1/2 cup chilled heavy cream
1 tablespoon sugar
Special equipment: a 9- to 9 1/2-inch springform pan; a mandoline or other adjustable-blade slicer

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and butter bottom and side of springform pan.
Stir together crumbs, sugar, and butter in a bowl with a fork until combined well, then press evenly onto bottom and one-third up side of pan. Bake crust in middle of oven 8 minutes and cool in pan on a rack.
Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Beat cream cheese with an electric mixer at medium speed until fluffy, then beat in sugar. Add lime juice, sour cream, and vanilla and beat until smooth. Mix in flour and salt at low speed, scraping down side as needed, until just incorporated, then add eggs all at once and mix just until incorporated.
Pour filling into crust and set springform pan in a shallow baking pan. Bake cake in middle of oven until set in center, 1 hour to 1 hour and 10 minutes. Cool completely in springform pan on rack. (Cake will continue to set as it cools.)
Run a thin knife around edge of cake and remove side of pan. If desired, transfer cake with a large metal spatula to a serving plate.
Peel mangoes and, leaving fruit whole, slice very thinly lengthwise (slightly less than 1/8 inch thick) with mandoline (use caution — peeled mango is slippery). Halve wide slices lengthwise. Gently toss mango slices with lime juice.
Beat cream with sugar in a bowl with electric mixer until it just holds stiff peaks, then spread over top of cheesecake. Bending and curling mango slices, arrange them decoratively over cream.
Available via Manhattan Key Lime Juice (212-696-5378).

Tropical Lime Torte with Mango Compote 
4 large eggs
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup fresh lime juice
1 tablespoon grated lime peel
1/2 cup dark rum
1 16-ounce frozen all-butter pound cake, thawed
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup fresh lime juice
1/2 teaspoon grated lime peel
4 large ripe mangoes (5 to 6 pounds), peeled, pitted, diced
Lime slices

Whisk eggs, 3/4 cup sugar, lime juice and lime peel in heavy medium saucepan to blend. Whisk over medium-high heat until mixture thickens and just comes to boil, about 6 minutes. Transfer lime curd to small bowl; press plastic wrap directly onto surface. Chill until very cold, at least 3 hours and up to 3 days.
Line 9 1/4x51/4x23/4-inch loaf pan with 2 layers of plastic wrap, leaving long overhang. Stir rum and remaining 2 tablespoons sugar in small bowl until sugar dissolves. Trim brown layer from outside of cake. Cut cake horizontally into 3 equal layers. Beat cream cheese in large bowl until fluffy; gently fold in cold lime curd.
Trim bottom cake layer to fit pan bottom; reserve cake trimmings. Brush layer on both sides with 1/3 of rum syrup. Place in pan; spread 1 1/2 cups lime curd mixture over top. Brush second cake layer on both sides with 1/3 of rum syrup. Place in pan; spread remaining lime curd mixture over top. Brush third cake layer on both sides with remaining rum syrup. Place on lime curd mixture; press to adhere. Press reserved cake trimmings around sides. Cover torte with plastic overhang. Refrigerate torte at least 1 and up to 2 days.
Stir first 4 ingredients in large bowl until sugar dissolves. Mix in mangoes.
Cover; chill up to 1 day.
Using plastic as aid, lift torte out of pan and unwrap. Cut crosswise into 12 slices. Arrange slices on plates. Top with compote. Garnish with lime slices.

Coconut Shortbread Fans 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon coconut extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1/4 cup cornstarch
3/4 cup sweetened flaked coconut (about 3 ounces), lightly toasted

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly spray 9-inch-diameter tart pan with removable bottom with nonstick spray. Using electric mixer, beat butter, sugar, coconut extract and salt in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add flour and cornstarch and beat until well blended. Add flaked coconut and stir with fork to blend well. Press dough evenly onto bottom of prepared pan. Using knife dipped into flour and running knife deeply through dough, score dough into 16 equal wedges. Dip fork into flour; run tines across surface of dough wedges from side of pan to center, creating fan pattern. Deeply pierce each wedge in 2 places with fork.
Bake shortbread until golden, about 55 minutes. Cool in pan on rack 5 minutes. Remove pan sides. Cut warm shortbread into 16 wedges along marked lines. Cool completely on rack. (Can be made 5 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Giant Chocolate-Toffee Cookies 
1/2 cup all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 pound bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1 3/4 cups (packed) brown sugar
4 large eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
5 1.4-ounce chocolate-covered English toffee bars (such as Heath), coarsely chopped
1 cup walnuts, toasted, chopped

Combine flour, baking powder and salt in small bowl; whisk to blend. Stir chocolate and butter in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted and smooth. Remove from over water. Cool mixture to lukewarm.
Using electric mixer, beat sugar and eggs in bowl until thick, about 5 minutes. Beat in chocolate mixture and vanilla. Stir in flour mixture, then toffee and nuts. Chill batter until firm, about 45 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment or waxed paper. Drop batter by 1/4 cupfuls onto sheets, spacing 2 1/2 inches apart. Bake just until tops are dry and cracked but cookies are still soft to touch, about 15 minutes. Cool on sheets. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Florentine Carnival Cake (Schiacciata alla Fiorentina) 
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1 packet active dry yeast or 2 teaspoons rapid-rise yeast
1/2 cup water
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup extra-virgin olive oil, plus two tablespoons
2 large eggs, at room temperature
3 cups all-purpose flour
Grated zest of one orange
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
2 egg yolks
3 to 4 tablespoons powdered sugar

Lightly brush sides and bottom of an 11 x 7 x 1 1/2-inch baking pan with olive oil.
Dissolve the yeast in water and follow directions on the package regarding how long to let it sit. Using a mixer at medium speed (or processor with dough blade), blend into the yeast mixture the following (in order): the flour, half of the sugar (1/4 cup plus two tablespoons), the salt, 1/4 cup olive oil, the two whole eggs. Blend at medium speed until smooth and well combined.
Add the remaining 1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons of olive oil, the orange zest, and cinnamon, blending until oil is incorporated into dough. This mixture will be sticky and unkneadable. Scrape the dough into a very lightly oiled bowl. Wrap the bowl in plastic wrap or a large towel and put it in a warm place (75 to 80 degrees  F, no drafts) for 1 1/2 hours to allow dough to rise.
Using mixer (or processor with dough blade), again at medium speed, into the risen dough blend egg yolks and the remaining granulated sugar until fully incorporated. It should form a smooth, yet loose ball. Scrape mixture into the oiled baking pan. With your knuckles, even the dough to a uniform thickness, cover with a towel (preferable to plastic wrap, because the dough may expand over the pan edge), and place it in that warm place again until it rises to the edge of the pan, approximately 8 hours.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees  F. Bake dough until golden, about 10 to 12 minutes. Remove from oven, run a knife around the edge of the pan. Let it cool for 10 minutes. Then, with a decisive motion, slam the pan on a counter to dislodge cake.
Cover the cake with a heavy dusting of powdered sugar. For decoration, you may cut out a stencil of a Florentine lily and lay it on the cake before its sugar coating for a traditional and very handsome design.

Bittersweet Chocolate Cake with Dried Cherries 
7 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, diced
1 cup dried tart cherries (about 5 ounces), coarsely chopped
1/2 cup framboise eau-de-vie (clear raspberry brandy)*
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 large eggs
2/3 cup all purpose flour
Powdered sugar

Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line bottom of 9-inch round cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with parchment paper. Generously butter and flour sides of pan and parchment. Stir chocolate and butter in large bowl set over saucepan of simmering water until melted and smooth. Turn off heat. Let chocolate stand over water. Mix cherries and framboise in medium saucepan. Bring to simmer over medium heat. Reduce heat to low; simmer until all liquid is absorbed, stirring often, about 9 minutes. Set aside.
Remove bowl with melted chocolate from over water. Whisk in sugar, vanilla and salt, then eggs 1 at a time. Add flour in 2 additions, blending well after each. Fold in cherries. Pour batter into pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs attached, about 35 minutes. Cool completely in pan on rack. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn out cake onto plate; peel off parchment paper. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.) Sift powdered sugar generously over cake.
*Sold at some liquor stores and specialty foods stores. If unavailable, substitute raspberry liqueur.

Old-Fashioned Coconut Cake 
1 18.5-ounce package butter recipe golden cake mix
3 large eggs
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/3 cup sweetened cream of coconut (such as Coco Lòpez)*
1/3 cup water
1 tablespoon dark rum
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup sweetened cream of coconut
3/4 cup powdered sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 10-ounce package sweetened flaked coconut (about 3 cups)

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans. Combine all 6 ingredients in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat mixture on low speed until smooth. Increase speed to medium and beat 4 minutes. Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool in pans 10 minutes. Cut around cakes to loosen; turn out onto racks. Cool completely.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, butter and cream of coconut in large bowl until smooth. Beat in powdered sugar and vanilla.
Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on platter. Spread layer with 3/4 cup frosting. Sprinkle with 3/4 cup flaked coconut. Top with second cake layer, flat side down. Cover top and sides of cake with remaining frosting. Press remaining flaked coconut over top and sides of cake. Chill cake until frosting is firm, at least 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover loosely and keep chilled until 1 hour before serving.)
*Cream of coconut is available in the liquor section of most supermarkets.

Quaresimali (Chocolate Alphabet Cookies) 
3 egg whites
Pinch of salt
1/4 cup superfine sugar
1/4 cup powdered sugar
6 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
2 tablespoons flour

Preheat the oven to 300 degrees  F.
In a medium-sized mixing bowl, beat egg whites and salt until foamy. Add superfine sugar slowly, beating until stiff, but not dry, peaks are formed. Sift powdered sugar and cocoa over beaten eggs and use a spatula to combine ingredients well. Don't worry about deflating the mixture. Sift flour over the mixture, again using a spatula to combine ingredients.
Transfer mixture to a pastry bag equipped with a number 10 tip. (You may substitute a large plastic sandwich bag and snip a 1/4-inch diameter hole off of its corner.) Pipe 2-inch letters of the alphabet onto parchment paper or, preferably, a nonstick baking mat. You can put them close together, because they won't spread. Bake for 12 minutes. If you use parchment paper, then remove the cookies from the paper the moment they come out of the oven. In any case, remove them with a spatula while still warm.

Mixed-Berry Chiffon Cake with Almond Cream Cheese Frosting 
1 cup half and half
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
1/3 cup sugar
1/4 cup all purpose flour
2 large eggs
1/2 7-ounce roll almond paste (scant 1/2 cup packed), diced
6 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), finely chopped
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
2/3 cup chilled heavy whipping cream
1 1/2 cups cake flour
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup lukewarm water
1/2 cup vegetable oil
5 large eggs, separated
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1 cup raspberry preserves
2 1/2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
3/4 teaspoon almond extract
Assorted fresh berries (such as strawberries and blueberries)
Currant jelly, warmed

Pour half and half into medium saucepan. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean; add bean and bring cream to simmer. Remove from heat; cover and steep 15 minutes. Blend sugar and flour in medium bowl. Whisk in eggs, then warm half and half mixture; return to same pan. Add almond paste. Whisk over medium heat until almond paste dissolves and custard boils, about 10 minutes. Remove from heat. Add white chocolate and butter; whisk until melted and smooth. Press plastic wrap onto custard; chill 3 hours. Remove vanilla bean. Beat cream to peaks; fold into custard in 3 additions. Cover; chill at least 6 hours. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.)
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour two 10-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Sift flour, 3/4 cup sugar, baking powder, and salt into large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat 1/2 cup lukewarm water into dry ingredients; beat in oil, egg yolks, both extracts, and peel. Using clean dry beaters, beat whites in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1/2 cup sugar, beating until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into batter in 3 additions. Measure 4 2/3 cups batter into 1 prepared pan and 3 1/3 cups batter into second pan.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes for thinner cake and 30 minutes for larger cake. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Cut around cakes and turn out onto racks; cool completely.
Place thinner cake on 9-inch-diameter tart pan bottom. Spread with 1/2 cup preserves, leaving 1/2-inch plain border. Spoon 1 1/2 cups filling in dollops atop preserves; spread evenly. Chill until filling is firm, about 15 minutes.
Cut larger cake horizontally in half. Place 1 half, cut side down, atop chilled filling. Spread with 1/2 cup preserves, leaving 1/2-inch plain border. Spoon 1 1/2 cups filling in dollops atop preserves; spread evenly. Top with remaining cake layer, cut side down . Cover cake and remaining filling; chill 3 hours.
Beat cream cheese, butter, sugar, and both extracts in large bowl to blend. Beat in 3/4 cup remaining filling. Spread 1 cup frosting thinly over sides and top of cake. Spread cake with remaining frosting, building high rim around top edge. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and chill.)
Mound berries on top of cake. Brush top of berries with warm jelly to glaze. Serve immediately, or chill up to 6 hours.

Angel Food Cake 
1 1/2 cups large egg whites (10 to 11)
1 tablespoon warm water
1 cup sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
1 1/4 cups superfine granulated sugar
1 tablespoon ground ginger (optional)
2 teaspoons vanilla
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/2 teaspoon salt
Special equipment: a 10- by 4-inch tube pan with removable bottom and a standing electric mixer

Preheat oven to 375 degrees  degrees F.
Put whites and water in a very clean large metal bowl and swirl over simmering water or a gas flame until barely warm. Sift together flour, 1/4 cup sugar, and ginger 4 times onto a sheet of wax paper.
Beat whites in standing electric mixer on medium speed until frothy. Add vanilla, cream of tartar, and salt. Increase speed to medium-high and beat just until soft peaks begin to form. Gradually beat in remaining cup sugar, 2 tablespoons at a time, occasionally scraping down side of bowl. Increase speed to high and beat until stiff, glossy peaks form. (Do not overbeat.) Sift one third of flour mixture over whites. Beat on low speed just until blended. Sift and beat in remaining flour in 2 more batches.
Gently pour batter into ungreased tube pan and smooth top. Run a rubber spatula or long knife through batter to eliminate any large air bubbles.
Bake cake in lower third of oven until golden and a tester comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Remove cake from oven and immediately invert pan. (If pan has  inchlegs, inch stand it on those. Otherwise, place pan over neck of a bottle.) Cool cake completely, upside down. Turn pan right side up. Run a long, thin knife around outer edge of pan with a smooth (not sawing) motion. Do the same around center tube. Remove outer rim of pan and run knife under bottom of cake to release. Invert to release cake from tube, and invert again onto a serving plate.
Serve cake with whipped cream and berries.

Chocolate Mint Cookies 
2 1/2 cups semisweet chocolate chips
6 tablespoons all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 cup sugar
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons dark corn syrup
1/2 teaspoon peppermint extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 3 large baking sheets with foil; butter foil. Place 1 1/4 cups chocolate chips in medium glass bowl. Microwave on medium-high until melted, stirring every 30 seconds, about 2 minutes. Cool 15 minutes.
Mix flour and baking powder in small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, eggs, corn syrup and extract in medium bowl until thick, about 3 minutes. Gradually beat in melted chocolate, then dry ingredients. Mix in remaining chocolate chips; freeze 10 minutes.
Drop 7 heaping tablespoons batter on each prepared baking sheet, spacing 3 inches apart (cookies will spread). Bake until cookies are cracked on top and softly set, about 15 minutes. Cool cookies on baking sheets 5 minutes. Using metal spatula, transfer cookies to racks and cool completely.

Banana Layer Cake with White Chocolate-Cream Cheese Frosting and Walnuts 
2 6.4-ounce packages banana muffin mix
1 cup mashed ripe bananas (about 2)
2 large eggs
3 tablespoons vegetable oil
2/3 cup whole milk
2 large egg whites
2 tablespoons sugar
6 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), chopped
12 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup powdered sugar
2 1/4 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
3 ripe bananas
1 cup walnuts (4 ounces), toasted, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 11/2-inch-high sides. Combine banana muffin mix, mashed ripe bananas, eggs, vegetable oil, and whole milk in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat mixture at medium speed until well blended, about 2 minutes. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add sugar, beating until mixture is stiff but not dry. Fold egg whites into batter in 2 additions. Divide cake batter between prepared pans. Bake cake batter until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Turn out cakes onto racks and cool completely.
Stir chopped white chocolate in top of double boiler over barely simmering water until almost melted. Remove from over water; stir white chocolate until smooth. Cool to lukewarm, about 4 minutes. Beat cream cheese and unsalted butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in lukewarm white chocolate, then powdered sugar, vanilla extract, and lemon juice.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread with 1 1/3 cups white chocolate-cream cheese frosting. Thinly slice 2 bananas. Arrange banana slices over frosting. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Press toasted chopped walnuts into frosting on sides of cake. Refrigerate cake until frosting is set, at least 2 hours and up to 1 day.
Slice remaining banana; arrange slices atop cake and serve.

Strawberry-Orange Ricotta Cake with Pistachios 
1 cup shelled natural unsalted pistachios (about 4 3/4 ounces)
1/2 cup sifted cake flour (sifted, then measured)
4 large eggs, separated
2/3 cup sugar
1/3 cup water
1/3 cup sugar
1/3 cup 1x1/8-inch strips orange peel (orange part only)
3 tablespoons orange juice
2 tablespoons Grand Marnier or other orange liqueur
1 15-ounce container whole-milk ricotta cheese
3/4 cup powdered sugar
1 cup chilled heavy whipping cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 tablespoons finely chopped bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate
2/3 cup shelled natural unsalted pistachios, lightly toasted, chopped
2 pints strawberries, hulled, sliced
1/4 cup seedless raspberry jam

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line bottom of two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides with parchment paper. Using on/off turns, finely chop 1 cup pistachios with flour in processor. Using electric mixer, beat egg yolks with 1/3 cup sugar in large bowl until thick, about 4 minutes. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually beat in remaining 1/3 cup sugar, continuing to beat until whites are stiff and glossy. Fold half of whites into yolk mixture, then gently fold in half of pistachio mixture. Fold in remaining pistachio mixture, then remaining whites.
Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake until tester inserted into center of cakes comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Cool cakes completely in pans on rack.
Run knife around edge of each pan to loosen cakes. Invert cakes onto 9-inch-diameter cardboard rounds. Tap sharply on work surface, if necessary, to release cakes from pans. Peel off parchment.
Stir 1/3 cup water and sugar in heavy small saucepan over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Add orange peel; simmer until translucent, about 12 minutes. Cool. Strain syrup into bowl; add orange juice and Grand Marnier and reserve. Finely chop orange peel.
Blend ricotta cheese and powdered sugar in processor until very smooth, about 1 minute. Transfer to large bowl. Beat whipping cream and vanilla in medium bowl until firm peaks form. Fold cream mixture into ricotta mixture in 2 additions. Transfer 2 cups ricotta mixture to small bowl and reserve for frosting. Stir chopped chocolate and chopped orange peel into remaining ricotta mixture for filling. If necessary, chill frosting and filling until firm enough to spread.
Place 1 cake layer on platter; brush with half of reserved orange syrup. Spread chocolate-ricotta filling evenly over. Top with second cake layer. Brush remaining orange syrup over. Spread ricotta frosting over top and sides of cake. Chill until frosting firms slightly, about 2 hours. Gently press toasted pistachios onto frosting around sides of cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; keep chilled.)
Overlap strawberry slices in concentric circles atop cake. Stir jam in small saucepan over medium-low heat until melted. Brush melted jam over strawberries. (Can be made 1 hour ahead. Chill.)

Roasted Orange Cakes 
1/3 cup golden raisins
1/3 cup dark rum
8 to 10 large navel oranges
1 1/2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1/8 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
2 large eggs
3/4 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 teaspoon finely grated fresh orange zest
3/4 cup well-shaken buttermilk
Accompaniment: superpremium vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 450 degrees F.
Simmer raisins and rum in a small saucepan, stirring occasionally, until rum is absorbed, about 5 minutes.
Cut a very thin slice off bottom of each orange so it will stand without rolling. Cut a 3/4-inch-thick slice off top of each, removing any flesh from tops and reserving them. Remove as much flesh as possible from orange with a sharp knife and a spoon (reserving flesh for another use if desired), leaving an empty shell.
Sift together flour, baking soda and powder, and salt. Beat butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in vanilla and zest. Alternately fold in flour mixture and buttermilk in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture. Fold in raisins.
Fill orange shells two-thirds full with batter and put tops in place. Wrap oranges individually in foil and arrange on a baking sheet. Bake in middle of oven 50 minutes.
Transfer oranges in foil to a rack. Remove foil when cool enough to handle, then cool oranges on racks at least 15 minutes. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Chocolate Cherry Cake Squares 
3 cups fresh or frozen (not thawed) pitted sour cherries (1 lb)
2/3 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon almond extract
1 cup boiling-hot water
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups packed dark brown sugar
4 large eggs
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
Garnish: confectioners sugar

Toss fresh or frozen cherries and any juices with granulated sugar and almond extract in a bowl and let stand at least 2 hours. Drain cherries, reserving 1/2 cup cherry juices.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour a 13- by 9-inch metal baking pan, knocking out excess flour. Whisk hot water and cocoa powder in a small bowl until smooth, then whisk in reserved cherry juices and vanilla.
Sift together flour, baking soda, and salt into another bowl.
Beat together butter and brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes, then add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add flour mixture and cocoa mixture alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing at low speed until blended (batter may look curdled).
Stir in cherries and chocolate chips and pour batter into pan, smoothing top. Bake in middle of oven until a wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean, 35 to 40 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan on a rack, then cut into squares. Just before serving, dust with confectioners sugar.

No-Bake Blueberry Cheesecake with Graham Cracker Crust 
9 whole graham crackers
1/2 cup old-fashioned oats
3 tablespoons (packed) golden brown sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup water
1 tablespoon unflavored gelatin (measured from 2 envelopes)
12 ounces Philadelphia-brand cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup heavy whipping cream
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
3 cups fresh blueberries
1 cup chilled heavy whipping cream
1 tablespoon sugar
4 1/2-pint baskets blueberries
2/3 cup blueberry jam

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Blend first 4 ingredients in processor until graham crackers are finely ground. Add butter and vanilla; process until moist crumbs form. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Bake crust until deep golden brown, about 12 minutes. Cool.
Pour 1/4 cup water into small saucepan; sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand 10 minutes. Stir over very low heat just until gelatin dissolves. Set aside.
Blend cream cheese, cream, sugar, and lemon juice in processor until smooth. Add berries; puree until smooth (some blueberry bits will remain). With machine running, add warm gelatin mixture through feed tube and blend well. Pour filling into crust. Cover; chill overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.) Run knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Transfer to platter.
Beat cream and sugar in medium bowl until firm peaks form. Spread cream mixture thickly over top of cheesecake. Place berries in bowl. Heat jam in small saucepan over low heat until just melted. Pour jam over berries; toss to coat. Mound coated berries in center of cream, leaving 1-inch plain border. Chill cake at least 1 hour and up to 1 day.

Black-and-White Cupcakes 
1/4 cup whipping cream
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
4 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup powdered sugar
2 tablespoons whipping cream
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
3 large eggs, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1 1/2 cups cake flour
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/3 cup buttermilk

Bring cream and corn syrup just to simmer in heavy small saucepan over medium heat. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and vanilla; whisk until melted and smooth.
Whisk all ingredients in small bowl to blend. Let both icings stand 1 1/2 hours at room temperature to thicken.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line 12-cup muffin tin with paper liners. Whisk eggs, vanilla, and lemon peel in medium bowl to blend. Mix cake flour, baking powder, and salt in another medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended, stopping occasionally to scrape down sides of bowl. Gradually beat in egg mixture. Beat in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk in 2 additions each.
Divide batter among cups. Bake until tester inserted into centers comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cupcakes in pan on rack 5 minutes. Remove cupcakes from pan and cool completely.
Spread chocolate icing over half of each cupcake. Spread white icing on second half of each cupcake. Let stand until set, about 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store in single layer in airtight container at room temperature.)

An American Place Strawberry Shortcake 
2 cups all-purpose flour
3 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
5 tablespoons sugar
6 tablespoons cold unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
3/4 cup heavy cream
2 mashed hard-cooked large egg yolks
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
3 pints strawberries, cleaned and halved (quartered, if large)
2 tablespoons sugar
1 cup heavy cream, whipped

1. Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Lightly butter a baking sheet.
2. Sift the flour, baking powder and 4 tablespoons sugar into a bowl. Add the butter, using fingers to work it quickly into the flour until the mixture resembles fine crumbs. Add the cream and yolks; stir with a fork until the dough just holds together.
3. Knead the dough on a floured surface until it is just smooth. Do not overwork. Roll the dough out 3/4-inch thick. Using a floured 2 1/2- or 3-inch cookie cutter, cut out 4 rounds. Gather the scraps, reroll; cut 2 more rounds.
4. Put the 6 rounds on the prepared baking sheet. Brush with the melted butter and sprinkle with the remaining tablespoon of sugar. Bake in the center of the oven for 12 to 15 minutes, until the biscuits are golden brown and firm to the touch.
5. For the filling, mix berries and sugar in a bowl. Chill.
6. Cool the biscuits on a rack; carefully split them in half. Heap the bottoms with strawberries. Dollop with the whipped cream, then replace the biscuit tops. Serve immediately with remaining whipped cream on the side.

Pineapple, Mango and Papaya Squares 
2 cups chopped cored peeled fresh pineapple
1 cup chopped peeled pitted mango
1 cup chopped peeled seeded papaya
3/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup orange juice
1 cinnamon stick
1/2 teaspoon grated orange peel
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon peel
Pinch of ground cloves
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 2/3 cups all purpose flour

Combine chopped pineapple, mango, papaya, brown sugar, orange juice, cinnamon stick, orange peel, lemon peel and ground cloves in heavy medium saucepan. Cook over low heat until reduced to 1 1/2 cups, stirring frequently, about 1 1/2 hours. Remove cinnamon stick. Cool.
Using electric mixer, beat butter, sugar, vanilla extract and salt in large bowl just until blended. On low speed, gradually add flour, beating just until dough begins to come together. Turn dough out onto floured work surface. Gather dough into ball; divide into 2 pieces, 1 slightly larger than the other. Flatten each piece into square. Wrap each in plastic; chill 15 minutes.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Roll out larger dough piece on lightly floured work surface to 10-inch square. Transfer dough to 9-inch square metal baking pan. Press dough onto bottom and 1/2 inch up sides of pan. Pour filling into crust. Roll out remaining dough piece on floured surface to 9-inch square. Cut into 1-inch-wide strips. Place 4 strips atop filling, spacing evenly. Place 5 more strips diagonally atop first 4 strips, forming lattice. Trim lattice edges.
Bake until crust is golden brown, about 50 minutes. Cool completely. Cut into 9 squares. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Store in single layer in airtight container at room temperature.)

Simple Shortbread 
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups all purpose flour

Blend sugar and salt in processor. Cut in butter using on/off turns until blended and smooth. Blend in vanilla. Add flour and process until blended but still slightly crumbly, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl. Gather dough into ball; flatten into disk. Wrap in plastic and refrigerate 30 minutes.
Position rack in top third of oven and preheat to 250 degrees F. Divide dough in half. Press each half onto bottom of 8-inch-diameter cake pan or 9-inch-diameter pie dish. Bake shortbread 30 minutes. Rotate pans and continue baking until cooked through and very pale golden, about 30 minutes longer. Cool in pans on racks 10 minutes. Cut each warm shortbread while still in pan into 12 wedges. Cool completely. Using thin spatula, carefully transfer wedges to platter. (Shortbread can be prepared up to 4 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Outrageous Peanut Butter Cookies 
1 cup super chunky peanut butter
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 large egg
2 tablespoons dark corn syrup
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup all purpose flour
1/3 cup old-fashioned oats
1 teaspoon baking soda
3 1.8- to 2-ounce candy bars with peanuts, peanut butter, chocolate and caramel (such as Nutrageous), cut into 1/2-inch cubes

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with foil. Using electric mixer, beat first 6 ingredients in large bowl until well blended. Stir flour, oats and baking soda in small bowl to blend; mix into peanut butter mixture. Gently mix in candy bar cubes.
Drop dough by heaping tablespoonfuls onto prepared sheets (15 per sheet), spacing 1 1/2 inches apart. Flatten cookies slightly with moistened fingertips. Freeze cookies on sheets 15 minutes.
Bake cookies 10 minutes. Reverse sheets and bake until golden, about 10 minutes longer. Let cookies cool on sheets until beginning to firm, about 5 minutes. Using metal spatula, transfer cookies to racks and cool completely.

Triple-Chocolate Celebration Cake 
2 3/4 cups cake flour
1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
2 3/4 cups sugar
4 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
1 cup vegetable oil
1 cup sour cream
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips
3 cups whipping cream
1 1/2 pounds bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
4 1/3 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
1/2 cup light corn syrup
1 1/4 pounds bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
2/3 cup seedless raspberry jam
1 15 3/4x11 3/4-inch transfer sheet with gold-thread design*
3/4 pound bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
3 1/2-pint baskets raspberries
1/2 pound cherries
1 1-pint basket small strawberries
1 1/2-pint basket blueberries
1 1/2-pint basket blackberries
*Transfer sheets, or  inchtransfers, inch are sturdy but flexible plastic sheets coated with a mixture of cocoa butter and food coloring and etched with repetitive designs, such as golden swirls.
Here's how they work in this recipe: First, melted chocolate is spread over the sheets. After the chocolate has been chilled until firm, the plastic sheets are peeled away, leaving an edible design on the chocolate's surface.
Transfer sheets are available at some cake- and candy-supply stores or by mail from Beryl's Cake Decorating; call 800-488-2749.

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 10-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides; line each with round of parchment paper or waxed paper. Combine first 5 ingredients in medium bowl; whisk to blend well. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, eggs and egg yolks in large bowl until very thick and heavy ribbon falls when beaters are lifted, about 6 minutes. Add oil, sour cream and vanilla, then dry ingredients all at once to egg mixture. Beat at low speed until just blended, about 1 minute. Scrape down sides of bowl. Beat at high speed until well blended, about 3 minutes. Fold in chocolate chips; divide batter between prepared pans (about 3 3/4 cups batter in each).
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cakes completely in pans on racks. Cover; let cakes stand at room temperature overnight.
Bring cream to simmer in heavy large saucepan over medium-high heat. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and whisk until melted and smooth. Transfer ganache to glass bowl. Let stand until thick enough to spread, about 4 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; chill.)
Using electric mixer, beat 3 1/3 cups cream in large bowl until peaks form; refrigerate. Combine remaining 1 cup cream and corn syrup in heavy medium saucepan and bring to simmer. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and whisk until melted, smooth, and still warm to touch. Pour warm chocolate mixture directly onto whipped cream and fold in gently. Chill until mousse is set, at least 8 hours. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.)
Cut around pan sides; turn out cakes. Peel off paper. Cut each cake horizontally in half. Place 1 cake layer, cut side up, on 9-inch tart pan bottom or 9-inch cardboard round. Place another layer, cut side up, on clean baking sheet. Spread each with 1/3 cup raspberry jam. Chill until jam sets, about 15 minutes
If ganache is chilled, microwave on defrost setting in 15-second repetitions until just soft enough to spread, stirring occasionally. Drop 1 cup ganache by rounded teaspoonfuls over each jam layer. Using offset spatula, gently spread ganache to cover jam. Drop 3 cups mousse by heaping spoonfuls onto each ganache layer; gently spread to cover. Refrigerate cake layers 30 minutes. Using large metal spatula, place cake layer from baking sheet, mousse side up, atop cake layer on tart pan bottom. Place third cake layer, cut side down, on cake (reserve remaining cake layer for another use). Spread 1 cup mousse over top of assembled cake. Using long offset spatula, spread sides of assembled cake with enough ganache (about 1 1/2 cups) to fill gaps and make smooth surface. Transfer cake on tart pan bottom to platter.
Turn 1 large baking sheet upside down on work surface. Arrange two 20-inch-long pieces of foil on work surface. Cut two 4 1/2-inch-wide by 15 3/4-inch-long strips from transfer sheet. Lay 1 transfer sheet strip, rough-textured design facing up, onto each sheet of foil. Place chocolate in medium metal bowl; set bowl over saucepan of simmering water (do not allow bottom of bowl to touch water). Stir until chocolate is smooth and very warm to touch (about 115 degrees F). Remove bowl from over water.
Pour thick ribbon of melted chocolate (about 2/3 cup) onto 1 transfer sheet strip. Using long offset spatula, spread chocolate evenly over transfer strip, covering completely (chocolate will run over sides of strip). Lift edge of chocolate-coated strip with tip of knife. Slide hands between transfer strip and foil, lift entire transfer strip and place it, chocolate side up, on inverted baking sheet. Refrigerate until chocolate on strip is set and loses gloss but is still flexible (do not let chocolate become too firm), about 1 1/2 minutes. Using fingertips, lift chocolate-coated strip and attach, chocolate side in, to side of cake. Press strip to seal chocolate to side of cake (strip will stand about 1 inch above top edge of cake). Coat remaining transfer strip with chocolate, transfer to inverted baking sheet; chill until set but still flexible. Arrange 1 end of second strip against (but not overlapping) 1 end of first strip. Press second strip to seal chocolate to side of cake (both strips will just encircle cake). Refrigerate cake until chocolate strips are firm, about 30 minutes. Carefully peel transfer paper off chocolate strips. Chill cake at least 3 hours and up to 1 day. Mound fruit atop cake. Refrigerate until ready to serve. (Cake can be assembled up to 8 hours ahead.)

Blueberry and Orange Layer Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 1/2 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 tablespoons frozen orange juice concentrate, thawed
1 1/2 teaspoons grated orange peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 large eggs
1 cup whole milk
2 1/2-pint baskets blueberries
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 1/4 cups powdered sugar
2 tablespoons frozen orange juice concentrate, thawed
1 teaspoon grated orange peel
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 1/2-pint baskets blueberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides; line bottoms with rounds of parchment paper. Sift first 3 ingredients into medium bowl. Beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add sugar, beating until blended. Beat in concentrate, peel, and vanilla. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in flour mixture in 4 additions alternately with milk in 3 additions. Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool in pans on rack.
Combine berries, sugar, and lemon juice in heavy small saucepan. Bring to boil over high heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Boil until mixture is reduced to 3/4 cup, stirring occasionally and mashing berries coarsely with fork, about 8 minutes. Chill filling uncovered until cold, about 30 minutes.
Beat cream cheese and butter in bowl to blend. Beat in powdered sugar in 4 additions, then orange concentrate, peel, and vanilla. Chill until firm but spreadable, about 30 minutes.
Cut around cakes to loosen. Turn cakes out. Peel off parchment. Place 1 layer, flat side up, on platter. Spread filling to within 1/2 inch of edges. Chill 5 minutes. Top with second layer, flat side down. Spread 1/2 cup frosting thinly all over cake to seal. Spread remaining frosting over cake. Mound remaining blueberries on top. (Can be made 1 day ahead; chill. Serve at room temperature.)

Lemon Shortbread Bars 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups all purpose flour
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
2 large egg yolks
6 large eggs
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice
4 teaspoons finely grated lemon peel
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat 13x9x2-inch metal baking pan with nonstick spray. Blend flour, sugar and salt in processor to combine. Cut in butter, using on/off turns, until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add egg yolks and blend until moist clumps form. Press mixture onto bottom of prepared pan. Bake until just beginning to turn golden brown around edges, about 10 minutes. Remove crust from oven; reduce temperature to 325 degrees F.
Whisk eggs and sugar in large bowl to blend. Whisk flour and baking powder in medium bowl to blend. Add flour mixture to egg mixture, whisking to blend. Whisk in lemon juice and peel. Immediately pour lemon filling over hot crust; bake until filling is set, about 30 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Blend flour, 1/2 cup sugar and salt in processor to combine. Cut in butter, using on/off turns, until mixture resembles coarse meal.
Sprinkle topping over hot lemon bars; continue to bake until just golden, about 25 minutes longer. Cool completely. Sprinkle powdered sugar over. Cut into bars. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Apple Raisin Cake 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups vegetable oil
3 large eggs
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1 tablespoon dark rum
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 Cortland or Empire apples, peeled and cut into 1/4-inch dice
1/2 cup raisins

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and butter and flour a 12-cup bundt pan, knocking out excess flour.
Sift together flour, baking soda, and salt. Whisk together oil, eggs, sugars, spices, rum, and vanilla in a large bowl. Fold in flour mixture until just combined. Fold in apples and raisins and spoon batter into pan.
Bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, about 1 1/4 hours.
Cool cake in pan on a rack 10 minutes, then turn out onto rack to cool completely.

White Chocolate and Lemon Wedding Cake 
6 cups sugar
9 teaspoons cornstarch
3 cups fresh lemon juice
36 large egg yolks
3 cups (6 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
16 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), finely chopped (do not use chips)
6 8-ounce packages Philadelphia-brand cream cheese, room temperature
5 cups (packed) powdered sugar (about 1 1/4 pounds)
4 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
4 cups lemon curd (see above)
14 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), finely chopped (do not use chips)
1 1/3 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
11 cups sifted cake flour
11 teaspoons baking powder
2 1/2 teaspoons salt
3 cups buttermilk
6 tablespoons thawed frozen orange juice concentrate
5 tablespoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
6 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups vegetable oil
2 1/2 cups egg whites (about 20 large)
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
2 11-inch-diameter tart-pan bottoms or cardboard rounds
1 8-inch-diameter tart-pan bottom or cardboard round (cut from 9-inch round)
1 5-inch-diameter tart-pan bottom or cardboard round (cut from 6-inch round)
14 12-inch-long, 1/4-inch-diameter wooden dowels
Mix of large and tiny white roses and fresias (about 5 dozen)
8 1-pint containers fresh strawberries, hulled, halved
2 1/2-pint containers fresh blackberries
2 1/2-pint containers fresh raspberries
2 1/2-pint containers fresh blueberries
1 cup sugar

Make the curd in two separate batches. It's used as a filling between the cake layers and as a component in the mousse.
Whisk 3 cups sugar and 4 1/2 teaspoons cornstarch in heavy medium saucepan to blend. Gradually whisk in 1 1/2 cups lemon juice, then 18 yolks. Add 1 1/2 cups butter. Cook over medium heat until curd thickens and boils, whisking constantly, about 18 minutes. Transfer curd to medium bowl. Press plastic wrap directly onto surface of curd. Make second batch of curd, using same amount of each ingredient. Refrigerate at least 1 day. (Can be made 7 days ahead. Keep chilled.)
Make the frosting in two separate batches at least one day ahead. One batch is for the 12-inch cake, one for the other two cakes. Cream replaces butter in this variation of the standard cream cheese frosting, so it's spreadable straight from the fridge. Use heavy whipping cream for the best results.
Place 8 ounces chocolate in top of double boiler set over barely simmering water. Stir just until chocolate is melted, smooth, and just warm (do not overheat); remove from over water. Using electric mixer, beat 3 packages cream cheese in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in 1 1/4 cups sugar, then warm chocolate. Beat 2 cups cream and 1 1/4 cups sugar in medium bowl until medium-firm peaks form. Fold into cream cheese mixture in 3 additions. Cover; chill. Make second batch of frosting, using same amount of each ingredient. Refrigerate frosting at least 1 day and up to 4 days.
Place lemon curd in large bowl and refrigerate. Place white chocolate in top of double boiler set over barely simmering water. Stir just until chocolate is melted, smooth, and just warm (do not overheat); remove from over water. Beat whipping cream in another large bowl until medium-firm peaks form; fold in warm white chocolate. Fold mixture into lemon curd in 3 additions. Cover bowl and chill mousse until cold and set, at least 1 day and up to 4 days.
Use half of these ingredients to make the 12-inch cake and half to make both the 9- inch and the 6-inch cakes. Sift the flour first, then measure it.
Position rack just below center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 12-inch-diameter cake pan with removable bottom and 3-inch-high sides. Butter and flour 9-inch-diameter cake pan with removable bottom and 3-inch-high sides. Butter and flour 6-inch-diameter cake pan with removable bottom and 3-inch-high sides. Sift 5 1/2 cups sifted cake flour, 5 1/2 teaspoons baking powder, and 1 1/4 teaspoons salt 3 times into large bowl. Mix 1 1/2 cups buttermilk, 3 tablespoons orange juice concentrate, and 2 1/2 tablespoons vanilla in small bowl.
Using electric mixer, beat 3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) butter in large bowl until smooth and fluffy. Gradually beat in 1 1/4 cups sugar, then 3/4 cup oil. Beat in 1 more cup sugar. Beat in flour mixture in 4 additions alternately with buttermilk mixture in 3 additions, scraping down sides of bowl often. Using clean dry beaters, beat 1 1/4 cups (about 10) egg whites and 1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1 cup sugar, beating until whites fall from beaters in thick, puffy (not stiff) ribbon, about 4 minutes. Fold whites into batter in 4 additions. Transfer batter to prepared 12-inch pan. Bake cake until brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 25 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 30 minutes. Cut around cake to loosen; remove pan sides. Maintain oven temperature.
Make second batch of cake batter following same technique as for first cake and using same amount of each ingredient. Transfer 8 1/2 cups batter to prepared 9-inch pan; transfer 4 cups batter to prepared 6-inch pan. Bake cakes until brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes for 6-inch cake and 1 hour 18 minutes for 9-inch cake. Cool cakes in pans on racks 30 minutes. Cut around cakes to loosen. Remove pan sides. Cool all cakes completely. (Can be made 1 day before filling and frosting the cakes. Return cakes to pans. Cover with foil and store at room temperature.)
To make filling and frosting the cakes easier, use tart-pan bottoms or buy cardboard rounds from a cake and candy supply store.
Push 12-inch cake up to release from pan. Using large serrated knife, cut off enough of top crust to make cake 2 1/2 inches high. Cut cake horizontally into 3 layers, each about 3/4 inch thick. Using tart-pan bottom or 11-inch cardboard round, transfer top layer to work surface and cover; transfer middle layer to work surface and cover. Cut bottom layer from pan bottom and place on tart-pan bottom or cardboard round. Spread generous 1 3/4 cups mousse over. Drop 1 3/4 cups curd over by tablespoonfuls and spread to cover mousse in even layer. Refrigerate until mousse and curd are firm, about 1 hour. Using tart-pan bottom, place middle layer on bottom layer. Spread with same amounts of mousse and curd. Using tart-pan bottom, place top layer on cake and press lightly. Refrigerate assembled cake.
Push 9-inch cake up to release from pan. Cut off enough of top crust to make cake 2 1/2 inches high. Cut cake horizontally into 3 layers, each about 3/4 inch thick. Using tart-pan bottom or cardboard round, transfer top layer to work surface and cover; repeat with middle layer. Cut bottom layer from pan bottom and place on 8-inch tart-pan bottom or cardboard round. Spread 1 1/4 cups mousse over. Drop generous 2/3 cup curd over by tablespoonfuls and spread to cover mousse in even layer. Refrigerate until mousse and curd are firm, about 1 hour. Using tart-pan bottom, place middle layer on bottom layer. Spread with same amount of mousse and curd. Using tart-pan bottom, place top layer on cake and press lightly. Refrigerate assembled cake.
Push 6-inch cake up to release from pan. Cut off enough of top crust to make cake 2 1/2 inches high. Cut cake horizontally into 3 layers, each about 3/4 inch thick. Transfer top layer to work surface and cover; repeat with middle layer. Cut bottom layer from pan bottom and place on 5-inch tart-pan bottom or cardboard round. Spread generous 1/2 cup mousse over. Drop 6 tablespoons curd over by tablespoonfuls and spread to cover mousse in even layer. Refrigerate until mousse and curd are firm, about 1 hour. Using large spatula, place middle layer on bottom layer. Spread with same amount of mousse and curd. Using large spatula, place top layer on cake and press lightly. Refrigerate assembled cake.
Spread 2 1/4 cups frosting thinly over top and sides of 12-inch assembled cake as first coat. Spread 1 1/2 cups frosting thinly over top and sides of 9-inch assembled cake. Spread 3/4 cup frosting thinly over top and sides of 6-inch assembled cake. Chill all cakes 1 hour.
Spread 5 cups frosting over 12-inch cake. Spread 3 2/3 cups frosting over 9-inch cake. Spread 2 cups frosting over 6-inch cake. Refrigerate 6-inch cake.
Place 12-inch cake on platter. Press 1 dowel straight down into center and through to bottom of cake. Mark dowel 1 1/4 inches above level of frosting. Remove dowel and cut with serrated knife at marked point. Cut 7 more dowels to same length. Press 1 dowel back into center of cake. Press remaining 7 dowels into cake, spaced equally apart and 3 to 3 1/4 inches from center dowel. Chill cake with dowels.
Press 1 dowel straight down into center of 9-inch cake. Mark dowel 1 1/4 inches above level of frosting. Remove dowel and cut with serrated knife at marked point. Cut 5 more dowels to same length. Press 1 dowel back into center of cake. Press remaining dowels into cake, spaced equally apart and 2 inches from center; chill with dowels. (Can be made 2 days ahead. After frosting is firm, cover cakes with cake domes or loosely with foil; keep chilled.)
Mix of large and tiny white roses and freesias (about 5 dozen)
Place 9-inch cake atop dowels in 12-inch cake. Place 6-inch cake atop dowels in 9-inch cake. Place large roses between bottom and middle tiers, fitting in tiny roses and freesias to fill space. Fill space between middle and top tiers with mix of flowers.
This fruit compote contributes color and flavor contrast to each serving of the cake.
Combine all ingredients in large bowl; toss to coat. Cover; chill until juices form, at least 1 hour and up to 6 hours.
Place top and middle cake tiers on work surface. Remove flowers and dowels from cakes. Cut top cake into 8 slices. Cut middle cake into 16 slices. Insert knife straight down into 12-inch cake 3 inches from edge. Continue to cut around cake 3 inches from edge, making 6-inch-diameter circle in center. Cut outer ring into 18 slices. Cut 6-inch center into 8 slices. Place cake slices on plates; spoon compote alongside each.

Sefrou Apricot (Galettes Sucrees) 
4 large eggs
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup vegetable oil
3 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 cup chopped almonds
1/2 cup chopped walnuts
1/2 cup chopped dried apricots
1/2 cup chopped pitted dates
1 tablespoon sesame seeds

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees  and grease a cookie sheet.
2. In the bowl of an electric mixer, beat 3 of the eggs with the sugar. Add the oil, flour, baking powder, salt, and cinnamon, then fold in the chopped nuts and fruit.
3. Turn the dough out onto a floured board. Divide the dough into 2 pieces and form each piece into a roll about 14 inches long and 1 1/2 to 2 inches wide. Place the rolls on the cookie sheet, leaving an inch between them.
4. Beat the remaining egg and brush it over the dough. Sprinkle with sesame seeds.
5. Bake for 20 minutes on the middle rack. Let the rolls cool for 5 minutes. Using a serrated knife, slice each roll into 3/4-inch pieces. Lace the slices, cut side up, on the cookie sheet and return them to the oven for 15 more minutes, or until the cookies are golden brown.

Orange Shortbread 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup superfine granulated sugar
1 teaspoon finely grated fresh orange zest
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon coarse sugar (optional)

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Blend together butter, superfine sugar, zest, and salt in a bowl with a fork. Sift flour into butter mixture and blend with fork until mixture forms a soft dough.
Transfer dough to an ungreased large baking sheet and pat into a 10- by 5-inch rectangle. Prick dough all over with fork and sprinkle with coarse sugar (if using), pressing it gently into dough with your fingertips to adhere. Score dough crosswise with back of a knife into 6 rectangles (do not cut all the way through), then score each rectangle into 2 triangles.
Bake shortbread in middle of oven until edges are golden but center is pale, 12 to 17 minutes. Cool on baking sheet on a rack 10 minutes, then cut into 12 triangles along scored lines while still warm. Transfer triangles with a long spatula to a rack to cool completely.

Lydia's Austrian Raspberry Shortbread 
1 pound (4 sticks) unsalted butter, slightly softened
4 egg yolks
2 cups granulated sugar
4 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup raspberry jam, at room temperature
1/4 cup confectioners' sugar

Cream the butter in a mixer fitted with a paddle attachment (or using a hand mixer) until soft and fluffy. Add the egg yolks and mix well.
Mix the granulated sugar, flour, baking powder, and salt together. Add to the butter and egg yolk mixture and mix just until incorporated and the dough starts to come together. Turn the dough out onto a floured work surface and form into two balls. Wrap each ball in plastic wrap and freeze at least 2 hours or overnight (or as long as a month, if you like).
Heat the oven to 350 degrees.
Remove one ball of dough from the freezer and coarsely grate it by hand or with the grating disk in a food processor into the bottom of a 9x13-inch baking pan or a 10-inch tart pan with a removable bottom. Make sure the surface is covered evenly with shreds of dough.
With the back of a spoon or a flexible spatula, spread the jam over the surface, to within 1/2 inch of the edge all the way around. Remove the remaining dough from the freezer and coarsely grate it over the entire surface.
Bake until lightly golden brown, 30 to 40 minutes. As soon as the shortbread comes out of the oven, dust with confectioners' sugar. Cool on a wire rack, then cut in the pan with a serrated knife.

Blueberry-Lemon Cake with Lemon Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 cups plus 6 tablespoons cake flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
3 cups fresh blueberries (about three 4.4-ounce packages)
1 cup whole milk
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
4 large eggs
Lemon Cream Cheese Frosting
Lemon peel strips (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper; butter paper. Dust pans with flour. Sift cake flour, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Transfer 1 tablespoon flour mixture to large bowl. Add fresh blueberries and toss to coat. Set remaining flour mixture and blueberries aside.
Stir whole milk, vanilla extract, and grated lemon peel in small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in another large bowl until light and creamy. Gradually add sugar, beating until mixture is light and fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in flour mixture alternately with milk mixture in 3 additions each, just until blended. Fold in blueberries. Divide batter equally among pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Run knife around pan sides to loosen. Turn cakes out onto racks to cool completely. Peel off parchment paper.
Transfer 1 cake layer to platter. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over cake layer. Top with another cake layer; spread with 3/4 cup frosting. Top with third cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. (Cake can be prepared up to 1 day ahead of time. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let stand 30 minutes at room temperature before continuing.) Garnish cake with lemon peel strips, if desired, and serve.

Flourless Chocolate Cake with Caramel Sauce 
1 cup (2 sticks) butter, cut into pieces
8 ounces semisweet chocolate chips (about 1 1/2 cups)
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 cup sifted unsweetened cocoa powder
6 large eggs
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/4 cup water
1 1/2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1 cup whipping cream
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
Vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 10-inch-diameter springform pan. Line bottom with waxed paper. Stir butter and chocolate in heavy large saucepan over low heat until melted. Mix sugar and cocoa in large bowl. Add eggs; whisk until well blended. Whisk in chocolate-butter mixture. Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan on rack. Run knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
Stir sugar, water, and lemon juice in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat; boil without stirring until syrup is deep amber color, about 7 minutes. Remove from heat. Add in cream (mixture will bubble vigorously). Return to low heat; stir until any bits of caramel dissolve. Add butter; whisk until smooth. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and chill.)
Cut cake into wedges. If desired, arrange wedges on baking sheet and rewarm in 350 degrees F oven 10 minutes. Rewarm caramel sauce over medium-low heat, stirring often. Place 1 cake wedge on each plate. Drizzle with warm caramel sauce. Serve with ice cream.

Powdered Sugar Pound Cake 
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1-pound box powdered sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon salt
6 large eggs
2 1/3 cups all purpose flour

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour 12-cup angel food cake pan with removable bottom. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in sugar, then lemon peel, vanilla extract and salt. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Add flour in 3 additions, beating just until blended each time. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes. Cut around center tube and pan sides to loosen cake. Remove pan sides. Cool cake completely.

Lemon Poppy Seed Pound Cake 
All ingredients should be at room temperature.
3 tablespoons milk (1.5 ounces = 45 grams)
3 large eggs (scant 5 fluid ounces = 5.25 ounces = 150 grams, weighed without shells)
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla (6 grams)
1 1/2 cups sifted cake flour (5.25 ounces = 150 grams)
3/4 cup sugar (5.25 ounces = 150 grams)
3/4 teaspoon baking powder (3.7 grams)
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon loosely packed grated lemon zest (6 grams)
3 tablespoons poppy seeds (1 ounce = 28 grams)
13 tablespoons unsalted butter, must be softened (6.5 ounces = 184 grams)
1/4 + 2 tablespoons sugar (2.75 ounces = 75 grams)
1/4 cup freshly squeezed lemon juice (2 ounces = 63 grams)
One 8-inch by 4-inch by 2 1/2-inch loaf pan (4 cups) — most attractive size — or any 6-cup loaf or fluted tube pan, greased and floured. If using a loaf pan, grease it, line the bottom with parchment or wax paper, and then grease again and flour.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
In a medium bowl lightly combine the milk, eggs, and vanilla.
In a large mixing bowl combine the dry ingredients, including the lemon zest and poppy seeds, and mix on low speed for 30 seconds to blend. Add the butter and half the egg mixture. Mix on low speed until the dry ingredients are moistened. Increase to medium speed (high speed if using a hand mixer) and beat for 1 minute to aerate and develop the cake's structure.
Scrape down the sides. Gradually add the remaining egg mixture in 2 batches, beating for 20 seconds after each addition to incorporate the ingredients and strengthen the structure. Scrape down the sides.
Scrape the batter into the prepared pan and smooth the surface with a spatula. The batter will be almost 1/2 inch from the top of a 4-cup loaf pan. (If your pan is slightly smaller, use any excess batter for cupcakes.) Bakes 55 to 65 minutes (35 to 45 minutes in a fluted tube pan) or until a wooden toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Cover loosely with buttered foil after 30 minutes to prevent overbrowning. The cake should start to shrink from the sides of the pan only after removal from the oven.
To get an attractive split down the middle of the crust, wait until the natural split is about to develop (about 20 minutes) and then with a lightly greased sharp knife or a single-edged razor blade make a shallow mark about 6 inches long down the middle of the cake. This must be done quickly so that the oven door does not remain open very long or the cake will fall. When cake splits, it will open along the mark.
In a small pan over medium heat, stir the sugar and lemon juice until dissolved. As soon as the cake comes out of the oven, place the pan on a rack, poke the cake all over with a wire tester, and brush it with 1/2 the syrup. Cool in the pan for 10 minutes. Loosen the sides with a spatula and invert it onto a greased wire rack. Poke the bottom of the cake with the wire tester, brush it with some syrup, and reinvert onto a greased wire rack. Brush the sides with the remaining syrup and allow to cool before wrapping airtight. Store 24 hours before eating to give the syrup a chance to distribute evenly. The syrup will keep the cake fresh a few days longer than a cake without syrup.
**Note:**This cake is very attractive made in individual portions. A 6-cake Bundt-lette pan is the perfect size. This recipe will make 6 individual cakelettes, which require about 20 minutes to bake.
Finished Height: In a 4-cup loaf: 2 1/4 inches at the sides and 3 1/2 inches in the middle. In a 6-cup loaf: 1 3/4 inches at the sides and 2 1/2 inches in the middle. In a 6-cup fluted tube: 2 1/4 inches in the middle.
Store: Airtight: 3 days room temperature, 1 week refrigerated, 2 months frozen.
Complementary Adornment: A simple dusting of powdered sugar.
Serve: Room temperature.
• Use cake flour that does not already contain leavening. Do not use self-rising cake flour.
• Use superfine sugar for finest texture.
• Use fresh baking powder.
• Measure or weigh ingredients carefully.
• If using a hand-held mixer, beat at high speed.
• Use the correct pan size.
• For very even layers and maximum height use Magi-Cake Strips.
• Check for accurate oven temperature.
• Use correct baking time; do not overbake.
• Be sure to use a wooden toothpick to test for doneness. The cake will spring back when pressed lightly in the center even before it is done. If the cake is underbaked, it will have tough, gummy spots instead of a fine, tender crumb.

Caramel-Almond Torte with Spiced Mango Compote 
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 1/4 cups water
1 1/2 tablespoons chopped peeled fresh ginger
1 tablespoon grated orange peel
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 cinnamon stick, broken in half
3 1-pound mangoes, peeled, pitted, cut into 3/4-inch pieces
2 1/4 cups slivered almonds (about 9 ounces), toasted, cooled
8 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon potato starch
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
4 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon almond extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) pareve kosher-for-Passover margarine
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar

Combine first 6 ingredients in heavy medium saucepan. Bring syrup to boil over medium-high heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Boil syrup 5 minutes. Pour into medium bowl; cool 30 minutes. Mix in mangoes. Cover and chill at least 2 hours and up to 4 days.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Blend 1 3/4 cups almonds, 2 tablespoons sugar, potato starch, and cinnamon in processor until nuts are finely chopped, about 45 seconds. Using electric mixer, beat egg yolks, 2 tablespoons sugar, and almond extract in large bowl until very thick and pale in color, about 3 minutes. Fold almond mixture into yolk mixture.
Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites, and salt in medium bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 4 tablespoons sugar, beating until stiff but not dry. Fold large spoonful of whites into yolk mixture to lighten. Fold in remaining whites in 2 additions.
Transfer batter to 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Bake torte until puffed and golden brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Immediately invert pan onto rack. Cool torte (upside down) completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and store right side up at room temperature.)
Melt margarine in heavy medium skillet over medium heat. Whisk in brown sugar. Cook until caramel bubbles and is smooth and thick, about 3 minutes. Mix in remaining 1/2 cup almonds. Spoon topping over torte. Cool 1 hour. (Can be made 6 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature.)
Cut around pan sides to loosen torte; release pan sides. Place torte on platter. Serve with compote.

Lemon Layer Cake with Raspberry Curd and Whipped Cream 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
4 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
3/4 cup whole milk
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
2 cups cake flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled
2 6-ounce baskets fresh raspberries
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 large eggs
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 cups chilled whipping cream

Preheat oven to 350?F. Spray two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides with nonstick vegetable oil spray. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper; spray again.
Whisk eggs, yolks, milk, lemon juice, and lemon peel in medium bowl to blend. Whisk flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in large bowl to blend. Whisk oil and butter into flour mixture. Add egg mixture and whisk until smooth. Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cakes on racks 10 minutes. Run knife around edge of pans to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks. Cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap with plastic. Let stand at room temperature.)
Stir 1 basket raspberries, 3/4 cup sugar, eggs, lemon juice, butter, and salt in medium saucepan over medium heat until thickened and beginning to bubble at edges, about 5 minutes. Strain raspberry curd into medium bowl, pressing on solids in strainer. Refrigerate until cold, at least 2 hours and up to 1 day.
Whip cream and 1/2 cup sugar until peaks form. Fold 1 1/2 cups whipped cream into raspberry curd. Reserve remaining whipped cream.
Cut each cake horizontally into 2 layers. Place 1 layer, cut side down, on platter. Spread 1/3 of raspberry filling over. Repeat with 2 more cake layers and filling. Top with remaining cake layer.
Spread all but 1 cup plain whipped cream over top and sides of cake. Place remaining whipped cream in pastry bag fitted with star tip. Pipe design around bottom edge of cake. Arrange remaining berries atop cake. Chill until cold, about 2 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and keep refrigerated.)

Pear-Hazelnut Cheesecakes with Pear-Raspberry Sauce 
1 cup frozen unsweetened raspberries, thawed
1/4 cup pear nectar
3 tablespoons (packed) golden brown sugar
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/2 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked
1 1/2 teaspoons sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons melted butter
1 10-ounce pear, peeled, cored, chopped (about 1 1/2 cups)
2/3 cup pear nectar
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
3 tablespoons sugar
1 large egg
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
Fresh mint (optional)

Purée all ingredients in blender. Strain into small bowl. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Cover; refrigerate.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line four 3/4-cup soufflé dishes or custard cups with foil; spray lightly with nonstick spray. Finely grind nuts and sugar in processor. Add butter; blend until mixture holds together. Press 1/4 of nut mixture onto bottom of each prepared dish. Place dishes on baking sheet; bake crusts until slightly darker in color, 8 minutes. Set aside. Maintain oven temperature.
Combine pear and nectar in small saucepan. Boil over medium heat until mixture resembles chunky sauce, stirring occasionally, about 18 minutes. Cool completely.
Beat cream cheese and sugar in medium bowl until smooth. Beat in egg and vanilla. Beat in 2/3 cup chunky pear sauce (reserve any remaining sauce for another use). Divide filling among crusts.
Bake cakes until center is set and slightly puffed, about 30 minutes. Cool in dishes on rack. Cover; chill overnight.
Using foil as aid, lift cakes from dishes. Peel foil from sides. Slide spatula under crusts and transfer cakes to plates. Spoon pear-raspberry sauce around cakes. Garnish with mint, if desired.

Devil's Food Cake with Creamy Chocolate Frosting 
3/4 cup water
1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
3/4 cup buttermilk
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup mayonnaise
1 large egg
1 large egg white
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Creamy Chocolate Frosting

Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch-diameter pans with 1 3/4-inch-high sides. Dust with flour; discard excess. Bring 3/4 cup water to boil in medium saucepan. Remove from heat. Whisk in cocoa to form paste. Cool slightly. Add buttermilk; whisk until blended.
Whisk flour and next 3 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and next 4 ingredients in large bowl until light, about 5 minutes. Beat in cocoa mixture. Add dry ingredients and beat just until blended. Divide batter between prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on rack 10 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks; cool.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over. Top with second layer. Spread remaining frosting over entire cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; let stand at room temperature.)

Orange-Almond Cake with Chocolate Icing 
3 large oranges
2 cups plus 2 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 cup whole almonds
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups plus generous 1 tablespoon sugar
1 cup unsalted butter, room temperature
4 large eggs
1 cup whole milk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
1 1/2 cups fresh orange juice
Chocolate Icing
Additional whole almonds
Small orange-slice triangles
Fresh mint leaves

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Dust with flour; tap out excess. Using vegetable peeler, remove peel (orange part only) in strips from oranges. Coarsely chop enough peel to measure 1/2 cup. Combine flour, 1 cup almonds, baking powder and salt in processor; blend until finely ground. Transfer to medium bowl. Place 2 cups sugar and orange peel in processor; blend until peel is finely minced.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until blended. Add sugar mixture and beat until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Mix milk and both extracts in small bowl. On low speed, beat flour mixture into egg mixture alternately with milk mixture in 3 additions each. Divide batter among prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 5 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely. Boil 1 1/2 cups fresh orange juice and remaining generous 1 tablespoon sugar in small saucepan until reduced to 1/2 cup, about 8 minutes. Brush warm juice mixture over tops of cooled cakes.
Place 1 cake layer, orange syrup side up, on cake platter. Spread 1 cup Chocolate Icing over. Top with second cake layer, then 1 cup icing. Top with third cake layer, syrup side up. Spread remaining icing over top and sides of cake. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and store at room temperature.) Arrange additional almonds, orange triangles and mint leaves around top edge of cake. Slice cake and serve.

Tiny Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 1/4 sticks (10 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
2/3 cup packed light brown sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups semisweet chocolate chips (7 1/2 oz)

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Beat together butter, sugar, salt, and baking soda in a large bowl with an electric mixer until fluffy, then beat in egg and vanilla. Add flour and mix at low speed until just combined. Fold in chocolate chips.
Drop barely rounded 1/2 teaspoons of dough about 1 1/2 inches apart onto ungreased baking sheets and bake in batches in middle of oven until golden brown, 6 to 7 minutes. Transfer cookies as baked to a rack to cool.

Cinnamon-Spiced Caramel Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/3 cup sugar
2 tablespoons water
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup water
1/2 cup hot water
2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup whole milk
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 large eggs
1 3/4 cups sugar
2 teaspoons grated orange peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups chilled whipping cream
1 cup chilled sour cream
1 cup powdered sugar
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
2 teaspoons grated orange peel

Spray inside of 4 star-shaped cookie cutters with nonstick spray. Oil baking sheet; place cutters on sheet. Combine sugar and 2 tablespoons water in heavy small saucepan over low heat. Stir until sugar dissolves. Increase heat; boil until syrup turns deep amber, brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush and swirling pan occasionally, about 4 minutes. Immediately pour thin layer of hot syrup inside each cookie cutter. Cool stars completely. Push stars out of cutters; wrap in foil. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store at room temperature.)
Stir sugar and 1/3 cup water in heavy small saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and boil without stirring until syrup turns deep amber color, brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush and swirling pan occasionally, about 7 minutes. Add 1/2 cup hot water (mixture will bubble up). Stir over low heat until hard bits dissolve. Cool caramel syrup.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line pans with waxed paper; butter paper. Sift first 4 ingredients into small bowl. Stir milk and butter in small saucepan over low heat just until butter melts; set aside.
Using electric mixer, beat eggs and sugar in large bowl until thick enough for batter to fall in heavy ribbon when beaters are lifted, about 5 minutes. Beat in orange peel and vanilla. Add flour mixture; beat just until blended. Add warm milk mixture; beat just until blended. Divide batter between prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean and cakes begin to pull away from sides of pans, about 24 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 20 minutes. Cut around pan sides and turn cakes out onto racks; peel off paper. Turn cakes right side up. Using toothpick, poke holes in tops of cakes. Brush half of caramel syrup over each cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap cakes and let stand at room temperature.)
Combine all ingredients in large bowl; beat until firm peaks form. Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 1 1/2 cups frosting over. Top with second layer. Spread frosting over top and sides. Chill at least 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; keep chilled.)
Stand stars upright on cake. Serve cake cold or let stand up to 1 hour at room temperature before serving.

Individual Cheesecakes with Mixed-Berry Sauce 
2 cups ground vanilla wafer cookies or shortbread cookies (about 10 ounces)
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup sugar
2 1/2-pint baskets raspberries
2 1/2-pint baskets blueberries
6 tablespoons black raspberry liqueur (such as Chambord)

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter six 1 1/4 cup custard cups. Toss ground cookies with melted butter in medium bowl to blend. Press 3 tablespoons cookie mixture evenly onto bottom of each prepared cup; reserve remaining cookie mixture.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, sugar, and vanilla in large bowl until fluffy, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl, about 1 minute. Add eggs and yolks 1 at a time, blending well after each addition. Divide batter equally among custard cups. Sprinkle reserved cookie mixture evenly atop batter. Place cups in large roasting pan. Add enough hot water to pan to reach halfway up sides of cups. Bake until cheesecakes are set in center, about 45 minutes. Remove cheesecakes from water bath. Cool completely. Wrap in plastic and refrigerate until cold, about 2 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
Melt butter in heavy medium skillet over high heat. Mix in sugar. Add berries and stir until sugar dissolves and berries are heated through, about 3 minutes. Remove skillet from heat; stir in liqueur.
Cut around cheesecakes to loosen. Turn cheesecakes out onto plates. Pour warm berry sauce around cheesecakes.

Orange Glow Chiffon Cake 
All ingredients should be at room temperature.
2 1/4 cups sifted cake flour (8 ounces = 225 grams)
1 1/2 cups sugar (10.5 ounces = 300 grams)
2 teaspoons baking powder (10 grams)
1/2 teaspoon salt (3.5 grams)
1/2 liquid cup safflower oil (3.75 ounces = 108 grams)
7 large eggs, separated + 3 additional whites (yolks: 1/2 liquid cup = 4.5 ounces = 130 grams; whites: 1 1/4 liquid cups = 10.5 ounces = 300 grams)
3/4 liquid cup orange juice, freshly squeezed (6.25 ounces = 182 grams)
2 tablespoons grated orange zest (12 grams)
1 teaspoon vanilla (4 grams)
1 1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar (4 grams)
One ungreased 10-inch two-piece tube pan

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F.
In a large mixing bowl combine the flour, all but 2 tablespoons of the sugar, baking powder, and salt and beat 1 minute to mix. Make a well in the center. Add the oil, egg yolks, orange juice, orange zest, and vanilla and beat 1 minute or until smooth.
In another large mixing bowl beat the egg whites until frothy, add the cream of tartar, and beat until soft peaks form when the beater is raised. Beat in the remaining 2 tablespoons sugar and beat until stiff peaks form when the beater is raised slowly. Gently fold the egg whites into the batter with a large balloon wire whisk, slotted skimmer, or angel food cake folder until just blended.
Pour into the tube pan (the batter will come to 1 inch from the top), run a small metal spatula or knife through the batter to prevent air pockets, and bake for 55 minutes or until a cake tester inserted in the center comes out clean and the cake springs back when lightly pressed in the center. Invert the pan, placing the tube opening over the neck of a soda or wine bottle to suspend it well above the counter, and cool the cake completely in the pan (this takes about 1 1/2 hours).
Loosen the sides with a long metal spatula and remove the center core of the pan. Dislodge the bottom and center core with a metal spatula or thin, sharp knife. (A wire cake tester works well around the core. To keep the sides attractive, press the spatula against the sides of the pan and avoid any up-and-down motion.) Invert onto a greased wire rack and reinvert onto a serving plate. Wrap airtight.
4 1/2 inches high in the middle.
3 days room temperature, 10 days refrigerated, 2 months frozen.
A light sprinkling of powdered sugar and/or decorate the base and center with orange blossoms or fresh daisies. Candied orange zest scattered on top also makes an attractive and flavorful addition.
Room temperature or lightly chilled. Cut with a serrated knife.
• Use cake flour that does not contain leavening. Do not use self-rising cake flour.
• Use superfine sugar for the finest texture and maximum volume.
• Measure or weigh ingredients carefully.
• Do not use oil that contains silicates — it will be listed on the label.
• Egg whites must be free of even a trace of yolk and the bowl must be spotless.
• When beating egg whites, use cream of tartar or be careful to beat just until stiff peaks form when the beater is raised slowly.
• Fold flour gently but thoroughly into the batter.
• Prevent air pockets by running a small metal spatula or knife through the batter before baking.
• Use the correct pan size.
• Bake immediately after mixing.
• Check for accurate oven temperature.
• Use correct baking time; do not underbake.
• Cool cakes upside down, well elevated from the countertop, in a draft-free area.
• Wrap cakes well when cool.
• An angel food cake folder, large balloon whisk, or slotted skimmer is ideal for folding in the flour with the least amount of air loss. If using the whisk, periodically shake out the batter which collects inside.

Vanilla Shortbread Cookies 
2 cups all purpose flour
3/4 cup powdered sugar
1/4 cup cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted European-style butter, room temperature
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Sift flour, 3/4 cup powdered sugar, cornstarch, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in granulated sugar and vanilla. Stir in dry ingredients in 3 additions, mixing until just blended each time. Gather dough into ball; divide in half. Roll each half into 6-inch-long log; wrap each log in plastic wrap and refrigerate at least 2 hours or overnight.
Position racks in top third and center of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. Cut each log crosswise into 1/3-inch-thick slices. Arrange slices on 2 heavy large baking sheets, spacing 1/2 inch apart (cookies will spread very little). Bake cookies 9 minutes. Reverse baking sheets; bake just until cookies turn golden brown at edges, about 9 minutes longer. Cool cookies on sheets 1 minute. Using thin metal spatula, transfer cookies to racks; cool.

Toffee Bar Coffee Cake 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 1.4-ounce chocolate-covered English toffee bars (such as Heath Bars), chopped (about 1 cup)
1 cup chopped pecans
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup buttermilk
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 13x9x2-inch glass baking dish. Using electric mixer, beat first 5 ingredients in large bowl on low speed until mixture resembles coarse meal. Transfer 1/2 cup butter-sugar mixture to medium bowl; mix in toffee and pecans. Set aside. Stir baking soda into remaining butter-sugar mixture in large bowl. Add buttermilk, egg and vanilla, beating until just combined. Transfer batter to prepared dish.
Sprinkle toffee topping evenly over batter. Bake until topping is golden brown and toothpick inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool completely in baking dish. Cut into 16 squares. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Blueberry Crumb Cake 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 teaspoon cinnamon
Rounded 1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) plus 2 tablespoons cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
2 large eggs, lightly beaten
1 cup sour cream
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
3 cups fresh blueberries (15 ounces)

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, 1 cup sugar, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, and nutmeg in a bowl. Blend 1 1/2 sticks butter into flour with your fingertips or a pastry blender just until mixture resembles coarse meal with some small (roughly pea-size) butter lumps.
Transfer 1 1/2 cups flour mixture to another bowl for crumb topping. Add remaining 2 tablespoons butter and remaining 2 tablespoons sugar to crumb topping, then blend with your fingertips until large lumps form.
Whisk together eggs, sour cream, and vanilla, then add to remaining flour mixture, stirring until just combined. Fold in blueberries and spread batter, distributing berries evenly, in a buttered 13- by 9- by 2-inch baking pan. Sprinkle batter evenly with crumb topping.
Bake in middle of oven until cake is golden and a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out clean, 40 to 45 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 20 minutes before cutting.

Black and White Cookies 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup well-shaken buttermilk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/3 cup (5 1/3 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg
1 1/2 cups confectioners sugar
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
1 to 2 tablespoons water
1/4 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt in a bowl. Stir together buttermilk and vanilla in a cup.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes, then add egg, beating until combined well. Mix in flour mixture and buttermilk mixture alternately in batches at low speed (scraping down side of bowl occasionally), beginning and ending with flour mixture. Mix until smooth.
Spoon 1/4 cups of batter about 2 inches apart onto a buttered large baking sheet. Bake in middle of oven until tops are puffed and pale golden, and cookies spring back when touched, 15 to 17 minutes. Transfer with a metal spatula to a rack and chill (to cool quickly), about 5 minutes.
Stir together confectioners sugar, corn syrup, lemon juice, vanilla, and 1 tablespoon water in a small bowl until smooth. Transfer half of icing to another bowl and stir in cocoa, adding more water, 1/2 teaspoon at a time, to thin to same consistency as white icing.
Turn cookies flat sides up, then spread white icing over half of each and chocolate over other half.

Turtle Bars 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 3/4 cups (packed) dark brown sugar
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 tablespoons whipping cream
1 cup pecan halves, toasted
3/4 cup semisweet chocolate chips (about 5 1/2 ounces)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Mix flour, 1 cup brown sugar, and 3/4 cup butter in processor until well blended and crumbly. Press mixture evenly into ungreased 9x13x2-inch metal baking dish. Bake until crust is light golden, about 15 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Meanwhile, bring remaining 3/4 cup brown sugar, 3/4 cup butter, and cream to boil in small saucepan over high heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Boil 1 minute, stirring occasionally. Remove caramel from heat.
Sprinkle pecans over crust. Pour caramel over pecans. Bake until bubbles form and color darkens, about 20 minutes. Remove from oven and sprinkle with chocolate chips. Let stand until chocolate melts, about 5 minutes. Using offset spatula, spread chocolate evenly over top. Chill bars until chocolate sets, about 20 minutes. Cut into 1-inch squares.

Nectarine Cake Squares 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup plus 3 tablespoons granulated sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
2 large eggs
1/2 cup sour cream
2 medium firm-ripe nectarines (14 to 16 ounces), quartered lengthwise and pitted
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
2 teaspoons confectioners sugar for dusting

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour a 13- by 9- by 2-inch metal baking pan, knocking out excess flour.
Sift together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt into a small bowl. Beat together butter and 1 cup granulated sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 2 minutes, then beat in vanilla and almond extract. Add eggs 1 at a time, mixing at low speed after each addition until just combined. Add flour mixture and sour cream alternately in 3 batches, mixing after each addition until just combined. Spread batter in pan, smoothing top.
Cut nectarines lengthwise into 1/8-inch slices and toss with lemon juice and remaining 3 tablespoons granulated sugar in a bowl. Arrange slices, overlapping slightly, in 4 crosswise rows over batter. Cover surface of cake with a piece of buttered wax paper (paper helps fruit glaze itself) and bake in middle of oven 15 minutes. Remove paper and bake until a tester comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes more.
While cake is still warm, dust generously with confectioners sugar, then cool completely on a rack.

Mocha Cake with Malted Semifreddo 
4 teaspoons instant-espresso powder or instant-coffee granules
3 tablespoons hot water
8 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
6 large eggs, separated
2/3 cup granulated sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
3 large eggs at room temperature for 30 minutes
1/3 cup packed light brown sugar
2/3 cup chilled heavy cream
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/3 cup malted milk powder
Garnish: unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder and chocolate curls
Special equipment: an 8 1/2- by 4 1/2-inch metal loaf pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Oil a 15- by 10- by 1-inch baking pan and line bottom lengthwise with a large piece of wax paper, allowing a 2-inch overhang on each end.
Stir together espresso powder and hot water in a heavy saucepan until coffee is dissolved. Add chocolate and melt over low heat, stirring, until smooth. Remove from heat and cool to room temperature.
Beat together yolks, 1/3 cup sugar, and 1/8 teaspoon salt in a large bowl with a handheld electric mixer at moderately high speed until thick and pale, 5 to 7 minutes. Beat in melted chocolate.
Beat whites with remaining 1/8 teaspoon salt in another large bowl with cleaned beaters until they just hold soft peaks. Gradually add remaining 1/3 cup sugar and beat until whites just hold stiff peaks. Stir one third of whites into chocolate mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Spread batter evenly in baking pan and bake in middle of oven until puffed and top is dry to the touch and springs back when gently pressed, 12 to 14 minutes. Cover cake with 2 layers of dampened paper towels and let stand in pan on a rack 3 minutes, then remove towels and cool completely. Loosen edges with a sharp knife.
Sift cocoa powder evenly over top of cake and overlap 2 layers of wax paper lengthwise over cake. Invert a baking sheet over cake, then invert cake onto it, gently peeling off wax paper now on top.
Lightly oil loaf pan and line with 2 (24-inch-long) crisscrossed sheets of plastic wrap, letting excess hang over all sides. Using outside of loaf pan as a stencil, cut a rectangle from cake to line bottom of pan. Cut another rectangle for top of cake. Cut 2 pieces of cake to line long sides of pan, then 2 more for short sides. Fit all cake pieces (except top piece) into pan, cocoa sides against pan, pressing gently to help adhere. Wrap top piece of cake in plastic wrap and cover cake in pan with plastic-wrap overhang, then freeze cake while making semifreddo.
Beat together eggs and brown sugar in a metal bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water with electric mixer at medium speed until mixture registers 160 degrees F on an instant-read thermometer, 6 to 8 minutes. Remove bowl from heat and chill mixture until cool, about 10 minutes.
Mix together cream, vanilla, and malted milk powder in a separate bowl at low speed with electric mixer until powder is dissolved, then increase speed to moderately high and beat until it just holds soft peaks. Stir one third of cream into egg mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining cream gently but thoroughly.
Spoon semifreddo into cake-lined pan, spreading evenly and smoothing top, and cover with top piece of cake. Freeze, covered with plastic-wrap overhang, until firm, at least 8 hours.
Before serving, let cake stand at room temperature 5 minutes. Unwrap plastic and invert cake onto a long platter, using plastic wrap to help pull cake from pan. Sift cocoa evenly over top to garnish, then top with chocolate curls and cut into 1/2-inch-thick slices. Serve immediately.

Tropical Carrot Cake with Coconut Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 1/3 cups sifted all purpose flour (sifted, then measured)
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut
1 cup dry-roasted macadamia nuts
3/4 cup chopped crystallized ginger
3 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups sugar
1 cup vegetable oil
4 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups finely grated peeled carrots
2 8-ounce cans crushed pineapple in its own juice, well drained
3 8-ounce packages Philadelphia-brand cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups powdered sugar
3/4cup canned sweetened cream of coconut (such as Coco López)
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon (scant) coconut extract
14 whole dry-roasted macadamia nuts
1/4 cup chopped crystallized ginger

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper. Combine 1/3 cup flour and next 3 ingredients in processor. Process until nuts are finely chopped. Whisk remaining 2 cups flour, cinnamon, baking powder, salt, and baking soda in medium bowl to blend.
Using electric mixer, beat sugar and oil in large bowl to blend. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla. Beat in flour-spice mixture. Stir in coconut-macadamia mixture, then carrots and crushed pineapple.
Divide batter among pans. Bake until tester inserted into center of cakes comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool in pans on racks 1 hour. Run knife around edge of pans to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks; cool completely.
Beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until smooth. Beat in powdered sugar, then cream of coconut and both extracts. Chill until firm enough to spread, about 30 minutes.
Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on platter. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over top of cake. Top with second cake layer, flat side up. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over. Top with third cake layer, rounded side up, pressing slightly to adhere. Spread thin layer of frosting over top and sides of cake. Chill cake and remaining frosting 30 minutes. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Arrange whole nuts and ginger around top edge of cake. Chill 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and chill. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.)

Chocolate Chip Zucchini Cake 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour plus additional for dusting
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup packed light brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 large eggs at room temperature
2 cups coarsely grated zucchini (8 ounces)
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1/2 cup walnuts, toasted and chopped
a 3-quart bundt or fleur-de-lis pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter bundt pan well and dust with some flour, knocking out excess.
Sift together 2 1/2 cups flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt into a bowl. Beat together butter and brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes, then beat in vanilla. Reduce speed to medium and add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition and scraping down side of bowl occasionally, then beat until very smooth and fluffy, about 2 minutes more.
Reduce speed to low and add all but 1/2 cup flour mixture, mixing until just combined.
Toss zucchini, chocolate chips, and walnuts with remaining 1/2 cup flour mixture and add to batter, then mix batter with a rubber spatula (batter will be thick).
Spoon batter into bundt pan, smoothing top. Bake in middle of oven, rotating pan halfway through baking, until side begins to pull away from pan and a tester comes out clean, 45 to 50 minutes total.
Cool cake in pan on a rack 30 minutes, then run a thin knife around outer and inner edges. Invert rack over pan, then invert cake onto rack. Cool completely.

Coconut Pineapple Cake 
1 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1/2 teaspoon salt
6 large eggs at room temperature
1 cup sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 (20-ounce) can crushed pineapple, including juice
2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
2/3 cup water
1/4 cup sugar
3 tablespoons light rum
Coconut buttercream
3 1/2 cups fresh coconut shavings (see how to crack and shave fresh coconut ) or 2 2/3 cups sweetened flaked coconut (7-oz package)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and butter 2 (8-inch) square cake pans (2 inches deep).
Sift flour with salt into a bowl.
Heat eggs and sugar in large metal bowl set over a pot of simmering water, gently whisking constantly, until lukewarm.
Remove bowl from heat and add vanilla, then beat with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until thick and pale and tripled in volume (about 5 minutes with a standing mixer or 10 minutes with a hand held). Sift flour and salt over eggs in 2 batches, folding gently but thoroughly after each batch. Fold in melted butter until combined. Divide batter evenly between cake pans, smoothing tops.
Bake cakes in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean and cakes are golden, about 15 minutes. Cool in pans on racks 5 minutes, then invert onto racks to cool completely.
Stir together filling ingredients in a heavy saucepan until cornstarch is dissolved. Bring to a boil, stirring constantly, then simmer, stirring, 3 minutes. Cool filling completely, stirring occasionally.
Bring water and sugar to a boil in a small heavy saucepan, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Remove from heat and stir in rum. Transfer to a small bowl and chill until ready to use.
Trim edges of cakes if necessary and cut each horizontally in half with a long serrated knife to form a total of 4 thin layers. Put 1 cake layer, cut side up, on a cake plate and brush top with some rum syrup, then spread half of pineapple filling over it. Top with another cake layer and brush with syrup, then spread with about 2/3 cup butter cream. Top with a third cake layer and brush with syrup, then spread remaining pineapple over it. Top with fourth layer, cut side down, and brush with remaining syrup. Frost sides and top of cake with remaining butter cream, then coat with coconut.

Petite Rolled Vanilla Cookies 
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup powdered sugar
2 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup all purpose flour

Using electric mixer, beat 3 tablespoons butter and sugar in medium bowl until coarse meal forms. Beat in egg whites, 1 at a time, then vanilla. Add flour and beat until well blended. Melt remaining 2 tablespoons butter in small saucepan over low heat. Mix warm butter into batter.
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 nonstick baking sheets. Spoon 1 heaping teaspoonful batter for each cookie onto sheets, spacing 4 inches apart and forming 3 cookies on each sheet. Using small metal offset spatula or back of spoon, spread batter for each cookie to very thin 4-inch round. Bake cookies on 1 sheet until 3/4 inch of edge is golden brown, about 5 minutes. Run thin flexible spatula under edge of 1 cookie to loosen and remove from sheet. Working quickly while cookies are still warm and flexible, roll 1 cookie around handle of wooden spoon into cylinder. Slide cookie onto work surface. Shape remaining cookies into cylinders, returning sheet to oven briefly to soften cookies if necessary.
Bake cookies on second sheet while first baking sheet cools. Repeat with remaining batter, using cool baking sheet each time. Cool rolled cookies completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

No-Bake Blueberry Cheesecake with Graham Cracker Crust 
9 whole graham crackers
1/2 cup old-fashioned oats
3 tablespoons (packed) golden brown sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup water
1 tablespoon unflavored gelatin (measured from 2 envelopes)
12 ounces Philadelphia-brand cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup heavy whipping cream
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
3 cups fresh blueberries
1 cup chilled heavy whipping cream
1 tablespoon sugar
4 1/2-pint baskets blueberries
2/3 cup blueberry jam

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Blend first 4 ingredients in processor until graham crackers are finely ground. Add butter and vanilla; process until moist crumbs form. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Bake crust until deep golden brown, about 12 minutes. Cool.
Pour 1/4 cup water into small saucepan; sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand 10 minutes. Stir over very low heat just until gelatin dissolves. Set aside.
Blend cream cheese, cream, sugar, and lemon juice in processor until smooth. Add berries; puree until smooth (some blueberry bits will remain). With machine running, add warm gelatin mixture through feed tube and blend well. Pour filling into crust. Cover; chill overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.) Run knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Transfer to platter.
Beat cream and sugar in medium bowl until firm peaks form. Spread cream mixture thickly over top of cheesecake. Place berries in bowl. Heat jam in small saucepan over low heat until just melted. Pour jam over berries; toss to coat. Mound coated berries in center of cream, leaving 1-inch plain border. Chill cake at least 1 hour and up to 1 day.

Chocolate Raspberry Icebox Cake 
1/3 cup chilled heavy cream
1/2 teaspoon sugar
1/8 teaspoon vanilla
5 chocolate wafers such as Nabisco Famous
1/3 cup fresh raspberries
grated bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened)

Beat cream with sugar and vanilla in a small deep bowl with an electric mixer until it just holds stiff peaks.
Spread 1 heaping teaspoon cream onto each of 4 wafers. Arrange enough raspberries side by side (as close together as possible) on 1 cream-topped wafer to form an even layer. Stack 2 cream-topped wafers on a plate (cream sides up) and top with berry wafer, then carefully spread another teaspoon cream over berries. Top with last cream wafer and cover cream with remaining plain wafer. Frost top and sides of cake with remaining cream. Cover with an inverted bowl and chill at least 4 hours.
Serve cake with remaining berries.

Black-and-White Cupcakes 
1/4 cup whipping cream
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
4 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup powdered sugar
2 tablespoons whipping cream
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
3 large eggs, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1 1/2 cups cake flour
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/3 cup buttermilk

Bring cream and corn syrup just to simmer in heavy small saucepan over medium heat. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and vanilla; whisk until melted and smooth.
Whisk all ingredients in small bowl to blend. Let both icings stand 1 1/2 hours at room temperature to thicken.
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line 12-cup muffin tin with paper liners. Whisk eggs, vanilla, and lemon peel in medium bowl to blend. Mix cake flour, baking powder, and salt in another medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended, stopping occasionally to scrape down sides of bowl. Gradually beat in egg mixture. Beat in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk in 2 additions each.
Divide batter among cups. Bake until tester inserted into centers comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cupcakes in pan on rack 5 minutes. Remove cupcakes from pan and cool completely.
Spread chocolate icing over half of each cupcake. Spread white icing on second half of each cupcake. Let stand until set, about 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store in single layer in airtight container at room temperature.)

Pineapple, Mango and Papaya Squares 
2 cups chopped cored peeled fresh pineapple
1 cup chopped peeled pitted mango
1 cup chopped peeled seeded papaya
3/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup orange juice
1 cinnamon stick
1/2 teaspoon grated orange peel
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon peel
Pinch of ground cloves
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 2/3 cups all purpose flour

Combine chopped pineapple, mango, papaya, brown sugar, orange juice, cinnamon stick, orange peel, lemon peel and ground cloves in heavy medium saucepan. Cook over low heat until reduced to 1 1/2 cups, stirring frequently, about 1 1/2 hours. Remove cinnamon stick. Cool.
Using electric mixer, beat butter, sugar, vanilla extract and salt in large bowl just until blended. On low speed, gradually add flour, beating just until dough begins to come together. Turn dough out onto floured work surface. Gather dough into ball; divide into 2 pieces, 1 slightly larger than the other. Flatten each piece into square. Wrap each in plastic; chill 15 minutes.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Roll out larger dough piece on lightly floured work surface to 10-inch square. Transfer dough to 9-inch square metal baking pan. Press dough onto bottom and 1/2 inch up sides of pan. Pour filling into crust. Roll out remaining dough piece on floured surface to 9-inch square. Cut into 1-inch-wide strips. Place 4 strips atop filling, spacing evenly. Place 5 more strips diagonally atop first 4 strips, forming lattice. Trim lattice edges.
Bake until crust is golden brown, about 50 minutes. Cool completely. Cut into 9 squares. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Store in single layer in airtight container at room temperature.)

Molten Chocolate Cakes with Cherries 
1 16-ounce bag frozen pitted dark sweet cherries, halved, thawed, undrained
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup kirsch (clear cherry brandy) or regular brandy
1/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
2 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
2 large egg yolks
1 large egg
2 teaspoons all purpose flour
Powdered sugar
Fresh mint

Combine cherries with juices, 1/2 cup sugar, kirsch, and cinnamon in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium heat until sugar dissolves. Simmer until sauce thickens and is slightly reduced, about 10 minutes. Using slotted spoon, remove 1/4 cup cherries from sauce; drain well. Transfer to work surface and chop coarsely; reserve chopped cherries for cakes. Set aside cherry sauce.
Butter two 3/4-cup ramekins or custard cups. Whisk cocoa and remaining 1/4 cup sugar in small bowl to blend. Stir chocolate and butter in heavy small saucepan over low heat until chocolate melts and mixture is smooth. Remove from heat; whisk in cocoa mixture. Whisk in egg yolks, then whole egg and flour. Fold in reserved 1/4 cup chopped cherries. Divide batter between prepared ramekins. (Sauce and cake batter can be made 1 day ahead. Cover separately; chill.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Bake cakes uncovered until edges are set but center is still shiny and tester inserted into center comes out with some wet batter attached, about 22 minutes.
Warm sauce over low heat. Cut around cakes to loosen; turn out onto plates. Spoon sauce alongside. Sift powdered sugar over; garnish with mint.

Triple-Chocolate Celebration Cake 
2 3/4 cups cake flour
1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
2 3/4 cups sugar
4 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
1 cup vegetable oil
1 cup sour cream
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips
3 cups whipping cream
1 1/2 pounds bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
4 1/3 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
1/2 cup light corn syrup
1 1/4 pounds bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
2/3 cup seedless raspberry jam
1 15 3/4x11 3/4-inch transfer sheet with gold-thread design*
3/4 pound bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
3 1/2-pint baskets raspberries
1/2 pound cherries
1 1-pint basket small strawberries
1 1/2-pint basket blueberries
1 1/2-pint basket blackberries
*Transfer sheets, or  inchtransfers, inch are sturdy but flexible plastic sheets coated with a mixture of cocoa butter and food coloring and etched with repetitive designs, such as golden swirls.
Here's how they work in this recipe: First, melted chocolate is spread over the sheets. After the chocolate has been chilled until firm, the plastic sheets are peeled away, leaving an edible design on the chocolate's surface.
Transfer sheets are available at some cake- and candy-supply stores or by mail from Beryl's Cake Decorating; call 800-488-2749.

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 10-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides; line each with round of parchment paper or waxed paper. Combine first 5 ingredients in medium bowl; whisk to blend well. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, eggs and egg yolks in large bowl until very thick and heavy ribbon falls when beaters are lifted, about 6 minutes. Add oil, sour cream and vanilla, then dry ingredients all at once to egg mixture. Beat at low speed until just blended, about 1 minute. Scrape down sides of bowl. Beat at high speed until well blended, about 3 minutes. Fold in chocolate chips; divide batter between prepared pans (about 3 3/4 cups batter in each).
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cakes completely in pans on racks. Cover; let cakes stand at room temperature overnight.
Bring cream to simmer in heavy large saucepan over medium-high heat. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and whisk until melted and smooth. Transfer ganache to glass bowl. Let stand until thick enough to spread, about 4 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; chill.)
Using electric mixer, beat 3 1/3 cups cream in large bowl until peaks form; refrigerate. Combine remaining 1 cup cream and corn syrup in heavy medium saucepan and bring to simmer. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and whisk until melted, smooth, and still warm to touch. Pour warm chocolate mixture directly onto whipped cream and fold in gently. Chill until mousse is set, at least 8 hours. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.)
Cut around pan sides; turn out cakes. Peel off paper. Cut each cake horizontally in half. Place 1 cake layer, cut side up, on 9-inch tart pan bottom or 9-inch cardboard round. Place another layer, cut side up, on clean baking sheet. Spread each with 1/3 cup raspberry jam. Chill until jam sets, about 15 minutes
If ganache is chilled, microwave on defrost setting in 15-second repetitions until just soft enough to spread, stirring occasionally. Drop 1 cup ganache by rounded teaspoonfuls over each jam layer. Using offset spatula, gently spread ganache to cover jam. Drop 3 cups mousse by heaping spoonfuls onto each ganache layer; gently spread to cover. Refrigerate cake layers 30 minutes. Using large metal spatula, place cake layer from baking sheet, mousse side up, atop cake layer on tart pan bottom. Place third cake layer, cut side down, on cake (reserve remaining cake layer for another use). Spread 1 cup mousse over top of assembled cake. Using long offset spatula, spread sides of assembled cake with enough ganache (about 1 1/2 cups) to fill gaps and make smooth surface. Transfer cake on tart pan bottom to platter.
Turn 1 large baking sheet upside down on work surface. Arrange two 20-inch-long pieces of foil on work surface. Cut two 4 1/2-inch-wide by 15 3/4-inch-long strips from transfer sheet. Lay 1 transfer sheet strip, rough-textured design facing up, onto each sheet of foil. Place chocolate in medium metal bowl; set bowl over saucepan of simmering water (do not allow bottom of bowl to touch water). Stir until chocolate is smooth and very warm to touch (about 115 degrees F). Remove bowl from over water.
Pour thick ribbon of melted chocolate (about 2/3 cup) onto 1 transfer sheet strip. Using long offset spatula, spread chocolate evenly over transfer strip, covering completely (chocolate will run over sides of strip). Lift edge of chocolate-coated strip with tip of knife. Slide hands between transfer strip and foil, lift entire transfer strip and place it, chocolate side up, on inverted baking sheet. Refrigerate until chocolate on strip is set and loses gloss but is still flexible (do not let chocolate become too firm), about 1 1/2 minutes. Using fingertips, lift chocolate-coated strip and attach, chocolate side in, to side of cake. Press strip to seal chocolate to side of cake (strip will stand about 1 inch above top edge of cake). Coat remaining transfer strip with chocolate, transfer to inverted baking sheet; chill until set but still flexible. Arrange 1 end of second strip against (but not overlapping) 1 end of first strip. Press second strip to seal chocolate to side of cake (both strips will just encircle cake). Refrigerate cake until chocolate strips are firm, about 30 minutes. Carefully peel transfer paper off chocolate strips. Chill cake at least 3 hours and up to 1 day. Mound fruit atop cake. Refrigerate until ready to serve. (Cake can be assembled up to 8 hours ahead.)

Blueberry and Orange Layer Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 1/2 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 tablespoons frozen orange juice concentrate, thawed
1 1/2 teaspoons grated orange peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 large eggs
1 cup whole milk
2 1/2-pint baskets blueberries
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 1/4 cups powdered sugar
2 tablespoons frozen orange juice concentrate, thawed
1 teaspoon grated orange peel
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 1/2-pint baskets blueberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides; line bottoms with rounds of parchment paper. Sift first 3 ingredients into medium bowl. Beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add sugar, beating until blended. Beat in concentrate, peel, and vanilla. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in flour mixture in 4 additions alternately with milk in 3 additions. Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool in pans on rack.
Combine berries, sugar, and lemon juice in heavy small saucepan. Bring to boil over high heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Boil until mixture is reduced to 3/4 cup, stirring occasionally and mashing berries coarsely with fork, about 8 minutes. Chill filling uncovered until cold, about 30 minutes.
Beat cream cheese and butter in bowl to blend. Beat in powdered sugar in 4 additions, then orange concentrate, peel, and vanilla. Chill until firm but spreadable, about 30 minutes.
Cut around cakes to loosen. Turn cakes out. Peel off parchment. Place 1 layer, flat side up, on platter. Spread filling to within 1/2 inch of edges. Chill 5 minutes. Top with second layer, flat side down. Spread 1/2 cup frosting thinly all over cake to seal. Spread remaining frosting over cake. Mound remaining blueberries on top. (Can be made 1 day ahead; chill. Serve at room temperature.)

Lemon Shortbread Bars 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups all purpose flour
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
2 large egg yolks
6 large eggs
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice
4 teaspoons finely grated lemon peel
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly coat 13x9x2-inch metal baking pan with nonstick spray. Blend flour, sugar and salt in processor to combine. Cut in butter, using on/off turns, until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add egg yolks and blend until moist clumps form. Press mixture onto bottom of prepared pan. Bake until just beginning to turn golden brown around edges, about 10 minutes. Remove crust from oven; reduce temperature to 325 degrees F.
Whisk eggs and sugar in large bowl to blend. Whisk flour and baking powder in medium bowl to blend. Add flour mixture to egg mixture, whisking to blend. Whisk in lemon juice and peel. Immediately pour lemon filling over hot crust; bake until filling is set, about 30 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Blend flour, 1/2 cup sugar and salt in processor to combine. Cut in butter, using on/off turns, until mixture resembles coarse meal.
Sprinkle topping over hot lemon bars; continue to bake until just golden, about 25 minutes longer. Cool completely. Sprinkle powdered sugar over. Cut into bars. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Apple Raisin Cake 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups vegetable oil
3 large eggs
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 tablespoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1 tablespoon dark rum
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 Cortland or Empire apples, peeled and cut into 1/4-inch dice
1/2 cup raisins

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and butter and flour a 12-cup bundt pan, knocking out excess flour.
Sift together flour, baking soda, and salt. Whisk together oil, eggs, sugars, spices, rum, and vanilla in a large bowl. Fold in flour mixture until just combined. Fold in apples and raisins and spoon batter into pan.
Bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, about 1 1/4 hours.
Cool cake in pan on a rack 10 minutes, then turn out onto rack to cool completely.

White Chocolate and Lemon Wedding Cake 
6 cups sugar
9 teaspoons cornstarch
3 cups fresh lemon juice
36 large egg yolks
3 cups (6 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
16 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), finely chopped (do not use chips)
6 8-ounce packages Philadelphia-brand cream cheese, room temperature
5 cups (packed) powdered sugar (about 1 1/4 pounds)
4 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
4 cups lemon curd (see above)
14 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt or Perugina), finely chopped (do not use chips)
1 1/3 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
11 cups sifted cake flour
11 teaspoons baking powder
2 1/2 teaspoons salt
3 cups buttermilk
6 tablespoons thawed frozen orange juice concentrate
5 tablespoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
6 1/2 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups vegetable oil
2 1/2 cups egg whites (about 20 large)
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
2 11-inch-diameter tart-pan bottoms or cardboard rounds
1 8-inch-diameter tart-pan bottom or cardboard round (cut from 9-inch round)
1 5-inch-diameter tart-pan bottom or cardboard round (cut from 6-inch round)
14 12-inch-long, 1/4-inch-diameter wooden dowels
Mix of large and tiny white roses and fresias (about 5 dozen)
8 1-pint containers fresh strawberries, hulled, halved
2 1/2-pint containers fresh blackberries
2 1/2-pint containers fresh raspberries
2 1/2-pint containers fresh blueberries
1 cup sugar

Make the curd in two separate batches. It's used as a filling between the cake layers and as a component in the mousse.
Whisk 3 cups sugar and 4 1/2 teaspoons cornstarch in heavy medium saucepan to blend. Gradually whisk in 1 1/2 cups lemon juice, then 18 yolks. Add 1 1/2 cups butter. Cook over medium heat until curd thickens and boils, whisking constantly, about 18 minutes. Transfer curd to medium bowl. Press plastic wrap directly onto surface of curd. Make second batch of curd, using same amount of each ingredient. Refrigerate at least 1 day. (Can be made 7 days ahead. Keep chilled.)
Make the frosting in two separate batches at least one day ahead. One batch is for the 12-inch cake, one for the other two cakes. Cream replaces butter in this variation of the standard cream cheese frosting, so it's spreadable straight from the fridge. Use heavy whipping cream for the best results.
Place 8 ounces chocolate in top of double boiler set over barely simmering water. Stir just until chocolate is melted, smooth, and just warm (do not overheat); remove from over water. Using electric mixer, beat 3 packages cream cheese in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in 1 1/4 cups sugar, then warm chocolate. Beat 2 cups cream and 1 1/4 cups sugar in medium bowl until medium-firm peaks form. Fold into cream cheese mixture in 3 additions. Cover; chill. Make second batch of frosting, using same amount of each ingredient. Refrigerate frosting at least 1 day and up to 4 days.
Place lemon curd in large bowl and refrigerate. Place white chocolate in top of double boiler set over barely simmering water. Stir just until chocolate is melted, smooth, and just warm (do not overheat); remove from over water. Beat whipping cream in another large bowl until medium-firm peaks form; fold in warm white chocolate. Fold mixture into lemon curd in 3 additions. Cover bowl and chill mousse until cold and set, at least 1 day and up to 4 days.
Use half of these ingredients to make the 12-inch cake and half to make both the 9- inch and the 6-inch cakes. Sift the flour first, then measure it.
Position rack just below center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 12-inch-diameter cake pan with removable bottom and 3-inch-high sides. Butter and flour 9-inch-diameter cake pan with removable bottom and 3-inch-high sides. Butter and flour 6-inch-diameter cake pan with removable bottom and 3-inch-high sides. Sift 5 1/2 cups sifted cake flour, 5 1/2 teaspoons baking powder, and 1 1/4 teaspoons salt 3 times into large bowl. Mix 1 1/2 cups buttermilk, 3 tablespoons orange juice concentrate, and 2 1/2 tablespoons vanilla in small bowl.
Using electric mixer, beat 3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) butter in large bowl until smooth and fluffy. Gradually beat in 1 1/4 cups sugar, then 3/4 cup oil. Beat in 1 more cup sugar. Beat in flour mixture in 4 additions alternately with buttermilk mixture in 3 additions, scraping down sides of bowl often. Using clean dry beaters, beat 1 1/4 cups (about 10) egg whites and 1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 1 cup sugar, beating until whites fall from beaters in thick, puffy (not stiff) ribbon, about 4 minutes. Fold whites into batter in 4 additions. Transfer batter to prepared 12-inch pan. Bake cake until brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 25 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 30 minutes. Cut around cake to loosen; remove pan sides. Maintain oven temperature.
Make second batch of cake batter following same technique as for first cake and using same amount of each ingredient. Transfer 8 1/2 cups batter to prepared 9-inch pan; transfer 4 cups batter to prepared 6-inch pan. Bake cakes until brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 10 minutes for 6-inch cake and 1 hour 18 minutes for 9-inch cake. Cool cakes in pans on racks 30 minutes. Cut around cakes to loosen. Remove pan sides. Cool all cakes completely. (Can be made 1 day before filling and frosting the cakes. Return cakes to pans. Cover with foil and store at room temperature.)
To make filling and frosting the cakes easier, use tart-pan bottoms or buy cardboard rounds from a cake and candy supply store.
Push 12-inch cake up to release from pan. Using large serrated knife, cut off enough of top crust to make cake 2 1/2 inches high. Cut cake horizontally into 3 layers, each about 3/4 inch thick. Using tart-pan bottom or 11-inch cardboard round, transfer top layer to work surface and cover; transfer middle layer to work surface and cover. Cut bottom layer from pan bottom and place on tart-pan bottom or cardboard round. Spread generous 1 3/4 cups mousse over. Drop 1 3/4 cups curd over by tablespoonfuls and spread to cover mousse in even layer. Refrigerate until mousse and curd are firm, about 1 hour. Using tart-pan bottom, place middle layer on bottom layer. Spread with same amounts of mousse and curd. Using tart-pan bottom, place top layer on cake and press lightly. Refrigerate assembled cake.
Push 9-inch cake up to release from pan. Cut off enough of top crust to make cake 2 1/2 inches high. Cut cake horizontally into 3 layers, each about 3/4 inch thick. Using tart-pan bottom or cardboard round, transfer top layer to work surface and cover; repeat with middle layer. Cut bottom layer from pan bottom and place on 8-inch tart-pan bottom or cardboard round. Spread 1 1/4 cups mousse over. Drop generous 2/3 cup curd over by tablespoonfuls and spread to cover mousse in even layer. Refrigerate until mousse and curd are firm, about 1 hour. Using tart-pan bottom, place middle layer on bottom layer. Spread with same amount of mousse and curd. Using tart-pan bottom, place top layer on cake and press lightly. Refrigerate assembled cake.
Push 6-inch cake up to release from pan. Cut off enough of top crust to make cake 2 1/2 inches high. Cut cake horizontally into 3 layers, each about 3/4 inch thick. Transfer top layer to work surface and cover; repeat with middle layer. Cut bottom layer from pan bottom and place on 5-inch tart-pan bottom or cardboard round. Spread generous 1/2 cup mousse over. Drop 6 tablespoons curd over by tablespoonfuls and spread to cover mousse in even layer. Refrigerate until mousse and curd are firm, about 1 hour. Using large spatula, place middle layer on bottom layer. Spread with same amount of mousse and curd. Using large spatula, place top layer on cake and press lightly. Refrigerate assembled cake.
Spread 2 1/4 cups frosting thinly over top and sides of 12-inch assembled cake as first coat. Spread 1 1/2 cups frosting thinly over top and sides of 9-inch assembled cake. Spread 3/4 cup frosting thinly over top and sides of 6-inch assembled cake. Chill all cakes 1 hour.
Spread 5 cups frosting over 12-inch cake. Spread 3 2/3 cups frosting over 9-inch cake. Spread 2 cups frosting over 6-inch cake. Refrigerate 6-inch cake.
Place 12-inch cake on platter. Press 1 dowel straight down into center and through to bottom of cake. Mark dowel 1 1/4 inches above level of frosting. Remove dowel and cut with serrated knife at marked point. Cut 7 more dowels to same length. Press 1 dowel back into center of cake. Press remaining 7 dowels into cake, spaced equally apart and 3 to 3 1/4 inches from center dowel. Chill cake with dowels.
Press 1 dowel straight down into center of 9-inch cake. Mark dowel 1 1/4 inches above level of frosting. Remove dowel and cut with serrated knife at marked point. Cut 5 more dowels to same length. Press 1 dowel back into center of cake. Press remaining dowels into cake, spaced equally apart and 2 inches from center; chill with dowels. (Can be made 2 days ahead. After frosting is firm, cover cakes with cake domes or loosely with foil; keep chilled.)
Mix of large and tiny white roses and freesias (about 5 dozen)
Place 9-inch cake atop dowels in 12-inch cake. Place 6-inch cake atop dowels in 9-inch cake. Place large roses between bottom and middle tiers, fitting in tiny roses and freesias to fill space. Fill space between middle and top tiers with mix of flowers.
This fruit compote contributes color and flavor contrast to each serving of the cake.
Combine all ingredients in large bowl; toss to coat. Cover; chill until juices form, at least 1 hour and up to 6 hours.
Place top and middle cake tiers on work surface. Remove flowers and dowels from cakes. Cut top cake into 8 slices. Cut middle cake into 16 slices. Insert knife straight down into 12-inch cake 3 inches from edge. Continue to cut around cake 3 inches from edge, making 6-inch-diameter circle in center. Cut outer ring into 18 slices. Cut 6-inch center into 8 slices. Place cake slices on plates; spoon compote alongside each.

Honey Cheesecake Squares 
6 (4 3/4- by 2 1/2-inch) graham crackers
2 1/2 tablespoons sugar
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
8 oz cream cheese, softened
1 large egg
2 tablespoons milk
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh lemon zest
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1/4 cup mild honey

Preheat oven to 325ºF.
Crumble graham crackers into a food processor, then finely grind with sugar and a pinch of salt. Add butter with motor running, then press mixture evenly over bottom of an ungreased 8-inch square baking pan.
Bake in middle of oven 10 minutes, then cool 5 minutes.
Meanwhile, blend cream cheese, egg, milk, zest, and lemon juice in cleaned food processor. Add honey and blend filling well.
Pour filling over crust and bake in middle of oven until slightly puffed and set, about 30 minutes. Cool cheesecake in pan, then chill, covered, until cold, at least 3 hours. Cut into squares.

Chocolate Layer Cake with Chocolate-Raspberry Frosting 
2 2/3 cups cake flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (preferably Dutch-process)
1 teaspoon instant espresso powder
2/3 cup boiling water
1 1/3 cups buttermilk
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup vegetable shortening, room temperature
2 extra-large eggs
Chocolate-Raspberry Frosting
10 chocolate wafer cookies, finely crushed (6 tablespoons)
4 1/2 tablespoons seedless raspberry jam
2 6-ounce baskets fresh raspberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pans with parchment paper. Butter parchment. Dust pans with flour; tap out excess.
Sift 2 2/3 cups flour, baking soda and salt into medium bowl. Combine cocoa and espresso powder in another medium bowl. Whisk boiling water, then buttermilk and vanilla into cocoa mixture. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, butter and shortening in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Add dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk mixture in 3 additions each. Beat batter until smooth, about 2 minutes. Divide between prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool in pans on racks 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks. Peel off paper. Cool completely. Chill cakes 1 hour.
Meanwhile, prepare the Chocolate-Raspberry Frosting. Place 1 cake layer on work surface. Place 8-inch-diameter cake pan or plate atop cake. Using serrated knife, cut around cake pan, trimming to form 8-inch-diameter cake. Repeat with second cake layer. Transfer cake trimmings to processor; grind finely. Place in bowl. Mix in cookie crumbs.
Using serrated knife, cut each cake horizontally in half. Using 9-inch tart pan bottom as aid, transfer 1 cake layer, cut side up, to platter. Spread 1 1/2 tablespoons raspberry jam over. Spread 1/2 cup frosting over jam. Repeat layering 2 more times, using 1 cake layer, 1 1/2 tablespoons jam and 1/2 cup frosting for each layer. Top with fourth cake layer, cut side down. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Press crumb mixture generously onto frosting on top and sides of cake. Arrange raspberries in concentric circles atop cake. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let cake stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.)

Brownie Cupcakes with Peanut Butter Frosting 
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 4 pieces
1 1/4 cups semisweet chocolate chips (about 8 ounces)
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/3 cup sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup all purpose flour
1/3 cup walnuts, toasted, chopped
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup powdered sugar
3/4 cup creamy peanut butter (do not use old-fashioned or freshly ground)
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 teaspoons (about) whipping cream (optional)
Chocolate shavings or chocolate sprinkles

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 10 standard (1/3-cup) muffin cups with paper liners. Combine butter, 1/2 cup chocolate chips, and unsweetened chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water. Stir until mixture is melted and smooth. Remove from over water. Whisk both sugars into chocolate mixture, then whisk in eggs 1 at a time. Whisk in vanilla, then flour, walnuts, salt, and remaining 3/4 cup chocolate chips. Divide batter among prepared muffin cups (about 1/4 cup for each). Bake cupcakes until tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs attached, about 20 minutes. Transfer cupcakes to rack and cool completely.
Put powdered sugar and next 3 ingredients in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat until mixture is smooth, adding whipping cream by teaspoonfuls if frosting is too thick to spread.
Spread frosting in swirls over top of cupcakes. Sprinkle with chocolate shavings or chocolate sprinkles. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store in single layer in airtight container at room temperature.)

Mascarpone Cheesecake with Candied Pecans and Dulce de Leche Sauce 
8 ounces shortbread cookies
1/3 cup pecans (about 1 1/2 ounces)
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
12 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
2 8-ounce containers mascarpone cheese,* room temperature
1 1/2 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
4 large eggs, room temperature
Candied Pecans
Dulce de Leche Sauce

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Wrap outside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with 3 layers of heavy-duty foil. Finely grind shortbread cookies and pecans in processor. Add melted butter and process until crumbs are moistened. Press crumb mixture onto bottom (not sides) of prepared pan. Bake crust until golden, about 15 minutes. Cool crust completely on rack. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until smooth. Add mascarpone and flour; beat until smooth, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl with rubber spatula. Gradually add sugar and beat until smooth. Beat in vanilla and lemon juice. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until blended after each addition.
Pour filling over crust in pan. Place springform pan in large roasting pan. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to come halfway up sides of springform pan. Bake cheesecake until top is golden and cake is almost set (center 2 inches will still move slightly when pan is gently shaken), about 1 hour 15 minutes. Cool cake on rack 1 hour. Refrigerate uncovered overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover and keep refrigerated.)
Arrange Candied Pecans decoratively atop cake. Cut cake into wedges. Serve with Dulce de Leche Sauce.
*Italian cream cheese, available at Italian markets and many supermarkets.

Tiramisù Angel Cake Torte 
8 ounces Philadelphia-brand cream cheese, room temperature
2 cups chilled whipping cream
2/3 cup powdered sugar
6 tablespoons amaretto
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1 tablespoon instant espresso powder or coffee powder
1 9- to 10-inch angel food cake
3 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, coarsely grated
1 cup sliced almonds, toasted
Chocolate shavings (optional)

Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until smooth. Add 1 cup whipping cream, 2/3 cup powdered sugar, 2 tablespoons amaretto, cocoa and espresso powder. Beat until fluffy and smooth. Using same beaters, beat remaining 1 cup cream in medium bowl until firm peaks form. Fold whipped cream into cheese mixture for frosting.
Cut cake horizontally into 3 equal layers. Place bottom cake layer on platter. Sprinkle with 4 teaspoons amaretto. Spread with 1 cup frosting. Sprinkle with half of grated chocolate. Repeat layering with cake, amaretto, frosting and grated chocolate. Top with third cake layer. Sprinkle with 4 teaspoons amaretto. Spread remaining frosting over cake. Press almonds onto sides of cake. Top with chocolate shavings, if desired.

Maple Walnut Bûche de Noël 
1 1/4 cups walnuts (4 1/2 oz), toasted and cooled
1/4 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/3 cup plus 4 tablespoons sugar
4 large eggs, warmed in a bowl of hot water 5 minutes and then separated
1 1/2 tablespoons Canadian whiskey
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
Maple meringue buttercream
Walnut brittle

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 15- by 10- by 1-inch baking pan and line bottom with wax paper or parchment. Butter paper and dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Pulse walnuts, flour, salt, cinnamon, and 2 tablespoons sugar in a food processor until nuts are finely chopped.
Beat together yolks, whiskey, vanilla, and 1/3 cup sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until thick and pale and forms a ribbon that takes 2 seconds to dissolve when beaters are lifted, 5 to 8 minutes in a standing mixer or 8 to 12 minutes with a handheld. Fold in nut mixture in 4 batches.
Beat whites with a pinch of salt in another bowl with cleaned beaters at medium speed until they just hold soft peaks. Add remaining 2 tablespoons sugar 1/2 tablespoon at a time, beating, and continue to beat until whites just hold stiff peaks.
Fold one fourth of whites into yolk mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Stir 1/2 cup batter into butter in a small bowl until combined, then fold butter mixture into batter gently but thoroughly. Spread batter evenly in baking pan and rap once on counter to help eliminate air bubbles.
Bake cake until firm to the touch, pale golden, and beginning to pull away from sides of pan, 12 to 16 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 15 minutes, then loosen sides with a knife. Put a sheet of foil over cake and invert rack over foil, then flip cake onto rack and remove wax paper. Cool completely.
Slide cake (on foil) off rack. Spread 1 1/4 cups buttercream evenly over cake and sprinkle with chopped brittle. Using foil as an aid, roll up cake, jelly-roll style, beginning with a short end. Carefully transfer cake with a long metal spatula to a platter and remove foil.
Frost cake with about 1 1/2 cups buttercream, then chill cake until frosting is firm, about 30 minutes. (If you plan to finish assembling cake within 1 hour, keep remaining 1/4 cup buttercream at room temperature. If not, chill remaining buttercream, covered.)
Cut a thin slice from one end of log (to make end even), then, starting about a 1/2 inch in from cut edge, cut a diagonal piece from same end of cake. Arrange piece on side of cake to resemble a cut branch, using a bit of remaining buttercream to glue piece to  inchlog inch and cover seam. Arrange shards of walnut brittle decoratively on cake.

Summer-Fruit Shortcake with Mascarpone 
2/3 cup chilled buttermilk
1 large chilled egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups cake flour
1/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
5 medium plums, pitted, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
2 large peaches, pitted, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1 1/2-pint basket raspberries
1/3 cup sugar
1 8-ounce container chilled mascarpone cheese, or one 8-ounce package cream cheese at room temperature
1 cup chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup powdered sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Additional powdered sugar

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 425 degrees F. Whisk buttermilk, egg and vanilla extract in medium bowl to blend; transfer 1 tablespoon mixture to small bowl and reserve for glaze. Sift flour, sugar, baking powder and salt into large bowl; add butter. Using electric mixer, beat until mixture resembles coarse meal, about 3 minutes. Add buttermilk mixture and blend just until soft moist dough forms. Turn dough out onto lightly floured surface. Using floured hands, gather dough into ball and knead gently for 6 turns. Transfer dough to ungreased baking sheet. Shape dough into 8-inch round. Brush top with reserved 1 tablespoon buttermilk mixture. Bake cake until top is golden brown and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Transfer cake to rack and cool completely.
Toss plums, peaches, raspberries and 1/3 cup sugar in large bowl to blend. Let stand 30 minutes.
Meanwhile, beat mascarpone, whipping cream, 1/4 cup powdered sugar and vanilla in large bowl until firm peaks form. Refrigerate until ready to use.
Cut off top 1/3 of cake. Using small knife and leaving 1/2-inch border at edge, cut out enough of cake bottom to form 1/2-inch-deep indentation. Spread half of mascarpone cream in indentation. Using slotted spoon, remove fruit from bowl; mound onto cream. Reserve fruit juices in bowl. Spread remaining mascarpone cream over fruit. Cover with top of cake. Refrigerate cake and reserved juices separately, at least 3 hours and up to 6 hours.
Let cake stand at room temperature 30 minutes before serving. Dust with powdered sugar. Cut into wedges. Drizzle with reserved fruit juices and serve.

Chocolate Almond Torte 
1 1/2 cups blanched slivered almonds
1 cup sugar
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
5 large eggs, separated
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1/2 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled
1/4 teaspoon salt
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 10-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Combine almonds and 1/3 cup sugar in processor. Blend until almonds are very finely ground. Transfer almond mixture to medium bowl; do not clean processor. Add chocolate and 1/3 cup sugar to processor. Blend until chocolate is finely ground but not beginning to clump, about 45 seconds; stir into almond mixture. Using electric mixer, beat egg yolks and remaining 1/3 cup sugar in large bowl until mixture falls in heavy ribbon when beaters are lifted, about 5 minutes. Beat in almond extract and lemon peel. Fold in chocolate-almond mixture, then butter.
Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites and salt in another large bowl until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into chocolate batter in three additions. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs attached, about 40 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan on rack. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; store at room temperature.) Cut around pan sides to loosen; release sides. Sift powdered sugar over cake.

Walnut-Apricot Cake in Honey Syrup 
1 6-ounce package dried apricots
1/3 cup orange juice
1 1/2 cups orange blossom honey
1/2 cup water
Peel of 1 orange, removed in strips using vegetable peeler
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
5 large eggs, separated
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup farina (10-minute Cream of Wheat; not instant)
1 cup walnuts, finely chopped

Bring apricots and orange juice to simmer in small saucepan. Remove from heat, cover, and let soften 20 minutes. Using slotted spoon, transfer apricots to processor and chop coarsely. Reserve juice in saucepan.
Combine honey, 1/2 cup water, and orange peel in heavy large saucepan. Bring to boil. Reduce heat and simmer until syrup coats spoon, about 10 minutes. Cool slightly. Remove orange peel and reserve. Add lemon juice and reserved orange juice to syrup. Cool.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Brush 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides with 1 tablespoon butter. Using electric mixer, beat egg yolks, sugar, and salt in large bowl until pale and thick. Stir in farina, walnuts, 5 tablespoons melted butter, and apricots.
Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in another large bowl until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into batter in 3 additions; transfer to prepared pan.
Bake until cake is golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Immediately pour all of syrup over cake in pan. Cover pan loosely with foil; let cake stand until cool. Turn out cake and syrup onto platter. Garnish with reserved orange peel.

Molten Chocolate Cakes 
5 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1 tablespoon brandy
2 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
5 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 teaspoons instant espresso powder or instant coffee powder
Large pinch of salt
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1/2 cup chilled whipping cream

Generously butter four 3/4-cup soufflé dishes or custard cups. Arrange on baking sheet. Stir chocolate and butter in heavy small saucepan over low heat until smooth. Remove from heat; stir in brandy. Cool 10 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Using electric mixer, beat eggs, yolks, 4 tablespoons sugar, vanilla, 1 teaspoon espresso powder and salt in medium bowl until very thick ribbon falls when beaters are lifted, about 6 minutes. Sift flour over batter; fold in flour. Fold in chocolate mixture. Divide batter among dishes, filling completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover loosely; refrigerate. Let stand at room temperature 30 minutes before baking.)
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Bake cakes until tops are puffed and dry and tester inserted into center comes out with moist batter still attached, about 15 minutes. Cool cakes 5 minutes.
Beat cream, 1 tablespoon sugar and 1/2 teaspoon espresso powder in small bowl until firm peaks form. Top cakes with whipped cream and serve warm.

Mascarpone Cheesecake with Roasted Cashew Crust and Passion Fruit Caramel Sauce 
1/2 cup salted roasted cashews
1/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 cup all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon ground ginger
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 large egg yolk
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
Pinch of salt
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
2 8-ounce containers mascarpone cheese*
1/2 cup sour cream
4 large eggs
Passion Fruit Caramel Sauce
Sliced tropical fruits (such as papaya, mango, and pineapple)

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Wrap outside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with 2 layers of heavy-duty foil. Finely grind cashews and brown sugar in processor. Add flour, salt, and spices; blend 5 seconds. Add butter and blend until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add egg yolk; using on/off turns, blend until moist clumps form. Press dough over bottom and 1/2 inch up sides of prepared pan. Pierce crust all over with fork. Bake until golden brown, about 30 minutes. Cool crust. Maintain oven temperature.
Combine first 3 ingredients in large bowl. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean. Using electric mixer, beat cheese mixture until smooth and fluffy. Add mascarpone cheese and sour cream; beat at low speed just until blended, scraping down sides of bowl occasionally. Add eggs 2 at a time, beating just until blended after each addition. Transfer filling to prepared crust.
Place springform pan in large roasting pan. Fill roasting pan with enough hot water to come halfway up sides of springform pan. Place roasting pan with cheesecake in oven; cover roasting pan with foil. Bake cheesecake 30 minutes. Lift edge of foil to allow steam to escape; cover again. Bake cake 30 minutes. Lift foil again; cover again. Bake until cake is loosely set but filling jiggles all over when pan is shaken gently, lifting foil every 10 minutes, about 30 minutes longer. Remove cheesecake from water. Place on rack; cool 1 hour. Refrigerate uncovered until cold, at least 6 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; keep refrigerated.)
Cut around pan sides to release cheesecake. Cut into wedges. Drizzle each wedge with warm caramel sauce. Spoon some fruit alongside and serve.
*Italian cream cheese, available at Italian markets and many supermarkets.

Franco American Shortcake 
8 pints ripe strawberries, stemmed
1/2 cup sugar
2 cups all-purpose flour
1-3/4 cups cake flour
1 heaping teaspoon sea salt
5 teaspoons baking powder
12 tablespoons unsalted butter, chilled
2 cups heavy cream, chilled
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups creme fraiche

Preheat the oven to 425 degrees F. Line a baking sheet with parchment paper. Chill a medium-size bowl and a whisk or whisk attachment or rotary blades of an electric mixer (for whipping the cream).
Slice the berries and place them in a large bowl. Toss with 2 tablespoons sugar and set aside.
In a large bowl or the food processor combine both flours with the salt, baking powder, and 1/4 cup of the sugar and mix well. Add the butter and process or cut into the flour until it is ranges in size from coarse cornmeal to the size of a pea.
Add the 2 cups of heavy cream all at once and mix until the dough gathers together but doesn't completely adhere. Turn it out onto a well-floured surface, dust it lightly with flour and press it down with a rolling pin until it is rectangular in shape and about 1/2-inch thick. Fold it in thirds like a business letter and turn it one quarter turn. Lightly flour and gently press it out again until it is an even rectangle about 1/2-inch thick, fold it in thirds and turn it another quarter turn.
Cut the dough in half, horizontally. Lightly flour half and roll it into a very even rectangle measuring about 6 x 12 inches. Cut it in half, crosswise, then cut an x through each half to give 8 triangular pieces. Repeat with the remaining dough. Place the triangles on the prepared baking sheet, leaving 1/4-inch between them, and sprinkle them with the remaining sugar. Bake in the center of the oven until the shortcakes are pale golden and puffed, about 15 minutes. Slide the shortcakes off the baking sheets and cool on wire racks.
Whisk the vanilla into the creme fraiche.
To serve, place a shortcake in the center of a plate. Top with berries and a dollop of creme fraiche.

Kentucky Gingerbread 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter
1/2 cup vegetable shortening
3 large eggs
1 cup sugar
1 cup unsulfured molasses
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 tablespoon warm water
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup boiling water
Accompaniment: whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease and flour a 9- by 2-inch square baking pan, knocking out excess flour.
In a saucepan melt butter and shortening over moderately low heat and remove pan from heat. In a large bowl whisk together eggs, sugar, molasses, spices, and salt and add butter mixture in a slow stream, whisking. In a cup dissolve baking soda in warm water and whisk into batter. Sift flour over batter and whisk until combined well. Add boiling water in a slow stream, whisking, and pour batter into baking pan.
Bake gingerbread in middle of oven 45 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean. Cool gingerbread in pan on a rack.
Cut gingerbread into squares and serve warm or at room temperature with whipped cream.

Isabelle's Semolina Cake 
3/4 cup (150 grams) plus 6 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon unsalted butter, melted
3 large eggs
4 cups (1 liter) milk
1 vanilla bean, split down its length
Pinch of sea salt
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon (120 grams) semolina
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/2 cup (75 grams) raisins

1. Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F (200  degrees C). Have ready a 6-cup (1 1/2 l) soufflé dish or charlotte mold.
2. Make the caramel: Place the 6 tablespoons sugar in a small heavy saucepan over medium heat. It will gradually dissolve, and as it does so, swirl it around in the pan. When it is a pale caramel color, after 4 to 5 minutes, quickly pour it into the mold, swirling the mold so the caramel completely covers the bottom. Use the pastry brush to brush the sides of the mold with the melted butter.
3. Whisk the eggs in a small bowl until they are blended and set aside.
4. Place the milk, 3/4 cup (150 g) sugar, and vanilla bean in a medium-size heavy saucepan. Stir, and heat over medium heat until the milk is steaming and small bubbles have formed around the edges. Immediately remove from the heat, cover and let infuse for 10 minutes. Then remove the vanilla bean, rinse it well, and reserve it for another use.
5. Return the milk to medium heat, and when small bubbles have formed around the edges, add the salt and the semolina, lightly sprinkling the semolina over the milk and stirring constantly. Continue to stir constantly as the semolina cooks (it will thicken dramatically), until it has become like a paste, at least 10 minutes.
6. Remove the semolina from the heat and whisk in the eggs until they are thoroughly combined. Then whisk in the nutmeg and stir in the raisins.
7. Pour the mixture into the prepared mold and bake in the center of the oven until the cake is puffed and golden, 45 minutes.
8. Remove the mold from the oven and let it cool for 10 minutes. Then unmold the cake onto a serving platter.

Chocolate Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 pound fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened)
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter
1/2 cup sugar
3 large eggs

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and line a large baking sheet with parchment paper.
Into a bowl sift together flour, cocoa and baking powders, and salt. Coarsely chop chocolate. In a double boiler or a large metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water melt butter with three fourths chocolate, stirring until smooth.
Remove chocolate mixture from heat and stir in sugar. Stir in eggs 1 at a time until combined well and stir in flour mixture until just combined. Chill dough, covered, at least 10 minutes and up to 1 hour.
Drop rounded tablespoon measures of dough about 1‚ inches apart onto baking sheet and stud each cookie with a few pieces remaining chocolate. Bake in middle of oven 10 minutes, or until just set. Cool cookies on sheet on rack 5 minutes and transfer with a spatula to rack to cool completely. Make more cookies with remaining dough in same manner. Cookies may be kept in an airtight container at room temperature 3 days.

Banana Coffee Cake with Chocolate Chip Streusel 
1 1/4 cups semisweet chocolate chips (about 8 ounces)
2/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup chopped walnuts
1 tablespoon ground cinnamon
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 large egg
1 1/3 cups mashed very ripe bananas (about 3 large)
3 tablespoons buttermilk

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 8x8x2-inch metal baking pan. Stir chocolate chips, brown sugar, walnuts, and cinnamon in small bowl until well blended; set streusel aside. Sift all purpose flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, room temperature butter, and egg in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in mashed bananas and buttermilk. Add dry ingredients and blend well.
Spread half of batter (about 2 cups) in prepared baking pan. Sprinkle with half of streusel. Repeat with remaining batter and streusel. Bake coffee cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool coffee cake in pan on rack.

Chocolate Layer Cake with Rocky Road Frosting 
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 8-ounce container plain low-fat yogurt
2/3 cup (about) water
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups cake flour
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
Rocky Road Frosting
1 1/2 cups miniature marshmallows
1 cup coarsely chopped walnuts

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pans with parchment; butter parchment. Dust pans with flour; tap out excess. Stir chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water until melted and smooth. Remove from over water. Cool just to room temperature.
Pour yogurt into 2-cup measuring cup. Add enough water to measure 1 1/2 cups; whisk to blend. Whisk in vanilla.
Combine flour, sugar, butter, eggs, baking soda, baking powder and salt in large bowl. Add yogurt mixture and melted chocolate. Using electric mixer, beat until smooth, occasionally scraping bowl with rubber spatula, about 3 minutes. Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Run small knife around sides of pans to loosen cakes. Invert onto racks; peel off parchment. Cool completely.
Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on platter. Spread 2/3 cup frosting over. Top with second cake layer, flat side down. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Press marshmallows around top edge in 1-inch band and 1 inch down sides from top edge of cake. Sprinkle walnuts over center of cake. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and store at room temperature.)

Lemon and Rum Cheesecake with Strawberry Compote 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/4 cup sugar
1 envelope dry yeast
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1/2 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1/4 cup whole milk
3 large egg yolks
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 tablespoon all purpose flour
3 large eggs
2/3 cup whipping cream
2 tablespoons dark rum
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Strawberry Compote

Butter and flour 10-inch-diameter springform pan. Combine flour, sugar, yeast, grated lemon peel, and 1/2 teaspoon salt in processor; blend 5 seconds. Add chilled butter and cut in, using on/off turns, until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add whole milk, egg yolks, and vanilla extract and blend until soft clumps form. Using floured hands, gather dough into ball. Press dough over bottom and 1 inch up sides of prepared pan. Cover pan tightly with plastic wrap. Let dough rise in warm draft-free area until slightly puffy, about 2 hours 15 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, sugar, and flour in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Add whipping cream, dark rum, grated lemon peel, and vanilla extract; beat until filling is smooth. Transfer filling to crust (filling may be higher in pan than sides of crust).
Bake cheesecake until set in center and puffed at edges, about 40 minutes. Cool cheesecake in pan on rack 15 minutes. Cut around pan sides; release sides. Cool cheesecake completely. (Can be prepared 8 hours ahead. Let cheesecake stand at cool room temperature.)
Cut cheesecake into wedges and serve with strawberry compote.

Bittersweet Molten Chocolate Cakes with Coffee Ice Cream 
12 teaspoons plus 5 tablespoons sugar
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
3 large eggs
3 large egg yolks
1 tablespoon all purpose flour
1 quart coffee ice cream

Generously butter eight 3/4-cup soufflé dishes or custard cups. Sprinkle inside of each dish with 1 1/2 teaspoons sugar.
Stir chocolate and butter in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until smooth. Remove from heat. Using electric mixer, beat eggs, egg yolks, and remaining 5 tablespoons sugar in large bowl until thick and pale yellow, about 8 minutes. Fold 1/3 of warm chocolate mixture into egg mixture, then fold in remaining chocolate. Fold in flour. Divide batter among soufflé dishes. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with plastic; chill. Bring to room temperature before continuing.)
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Place soufflé dishes on baking sheet. Bake cakes uncovered until edges are puffed and slightly cracked but center 1 inch of each moves slightly when dishes are shaken gently, about 13 minutes.
Top each cake with scoop of coffee ice cream and serve immediately.

Triple-Layer White Cake with Orange Curd Filling and Frosting 
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
2 teaspoons unflavored gelatin
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup orange juice
9 large egg yolks
3 tablespoons grated orange peel
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
2 3/4 cups cake flour
1 1/4 cups plus 2/3 cup sugar
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup vegetable oil
4 large egg yolks
6 tablespoons sour cream
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon whole milk
2 teaspoons grated orange peel
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
6 large egg whites
10 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 2/3 cups powdered sugar

Place lemon juice in small bowl or custard cup. Sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand 15 minutes.
Whisk sugar, orange juice, yolks, orange peel, and lemon peel in heavy large saucepan to blend. Add butter. Whisk over medium heat until curd thickens and bubbles begin to appear at edges, about 9 minutes. Remove from heat. Add gelatin mixture. Whisk until gelatin dissolves. Transfer curd to small bowl. Press plastic wrap onto surface of curd. Chill overnight.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Sift flour, 1 1/4 cups sugar, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Whisk oil and egg yolks in large bowl until well blended. Whisk in sour cream, then milk, orange peel, and vanilla. Whisk in dry ingredients in 3 additions. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 2/3 cup sugar, beating until whites are stiff but not dry; fold into batter in 4 additions. Divide batter among prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool cakes in pans 5 minutes. Cut around pan sides. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely. Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on 8-inch tart pan bottom or platter. Spread 1 cup curd over. Top with second cake layer, flat side down. Spread 1 cup curd over. Top with third cake layer, flat side down. Cover; refrigerate assembled cake.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter in medium bowl until smooth. Beat in powdered sugar, then 3/4 cup orange curd. Spread frosting over cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; refrigerate.)

Ranger Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose white flour
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
Generous 1/2 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup (1 stick plus 2 2/3 tablespoons) unsalted butter, slightly softened
1/2 cup white vegetable shortening
1 1/3 cups packed light brown sugar
2/3 cup sugar
2 large eggs
2 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups old-fashioned rolled oats
2 cups corn flakes, crushed
1 1/4 cups (5 ounces) chopped pecans
1 1/4 cups (about 3 1/2 ounces) shredded or flaked sweetened coconut

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Grease several baking sheets or coat with nonstick spray.
In a medium bowl, thoroughly stir together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt; set aside. In a large bowl, with an electric mixer on medium speed, beat together the butter and shortening until lightened. Add the brown sugar and sugar and beat until fluffy and smooth. Add the eggs and vanilla and beat until evenly incorporated. Beat or stir in the flour mixture until evenly incorporated. Stir in the oats, corn flakes, pecans, and coconut until evenly incorporated. Let the dough stand for 5 to 10 minutes, or until firmed up slightly.
Shape portions of the dough into generous golf-ball-sized balls with lightly greased hands. Place on the baking sheets, spacing about 3 inches apart. Using your hand, pat down the balls until about 1/3 inch thick.
Bake the cookies, one sheet at a time, in the upper third of the oven for 8 to 11 minutes, or until tinged with brown and just beginning to firm up in the centers; be careful not to overbake. Transfer the sheet to a wire rack and let stand until the cookies firm up slightly, about 3 minutes. Using a spatula, transfer the cookies to wire racks. Let stand until completely cooled.
Store in an airtight container for up to 1 week or freeze for up to 1 month.

Spiced Layer Cake with Orange Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cardamom
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 tablespoon grated orange peel
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup whole milk
Orange Cream Cheese Frosting

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter three 9-inch-diameter cake pans. Line bottom of pans with waxed paper. Butter and flour pans; tap out excess flour. Sift first 8 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, butter and orange peel in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Stir flour mixture into butter mixture alternately with sour cream and milk. Divide batter among prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Transfer pans to racks and cool 10 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 2/3 cup frosting over. Top with second cake layer. Spread 2/3 cup frosting over. Top with third cake layer. Cover top and sides of cake with remaining frosting. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and store at room temperature.)

Italian Fig Cookies 
1 cup packed soft dried Mission figs (8 oz), hard tips discarded
3/4 cup raisins (3 3/4 oz)
3/4 cup mild honey
1/4 cup brandy
1 1/2 teaspoons finely grated fresh orange zest
1 teaspoon finely grated fresh lemon zest
1 tablespoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
3/4 cup whole almonds (4 oz), toasted and coarsely chopped
3/4 cup walnuts (3 oz), toasted and coarsely chopped
4 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
2 large eggs, lightly beaten
1/2 cup whole milk
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
1 teaspoon finely grated fresh orange or lemon zest
1 cup confectioners sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 to 2 tablespoons fresh orange juice
Garnish: multicolored nonpareils*

Pulse figs and raisins in a food processor until finely chopped, then stir together with remaining filling ingredients in a bowl. Chill, covered, at least 8 hours.
Whisk together flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl. Add butter and blend with your fingertips or a pastry blender (or pulse in a food processor) just until most of mixture resembles coarse meal with some small (roughly pea-size) butter lumps. Add eggs, milk, vanilla, and zest and stir with a fork until a soft dough forms. Halve dough and gather each half into a ball, then flatten each half into a rough 6- by 4-inch rectangle between sheets of plastic wrap. Chill until firm, at least 8 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Roll out 1 rectangle of dough (keep remaining dough chilled) into a 15- by 14-inch rectangle on a well-floured surface with a floured rolling pin. Trim to a 13- by 10-inch rectangle (chill trimmings), then cut into 4 (10- by 3 1/4-inch) strips. Arrange 1/3 cup filling in a 1-inch-wide log lengthwise down center of each strip, then fold sides of each strip up over filling to enclose it, pinching edges together to seal. Turn rolls seam-sides down and press gently to flatten seams. Cut logs crosswise with a floured knife into 1 1/2-inch-wide slices and arrange 1/2 inch apart on buttered large baking sheets. Make more cookies in same manner with remaining chilled dough, trimmings (reroll once), and filling.
Bake cookies in batches in middle of oven until golden around edges, 16 to 20 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool until warm, about 10 minutes.
Whisk together confectioners sugar, vanilla, and enough orange juice to make a pourable icing.
Brush icing on warm cookies and decorate with nonpareils (if using), then cool completely.
Available at some specialty bakeware shops and Sweet Celebrations (800-328-6722).

Spiced Crumble Cake with Chocolate Frosting 
1 cup pecans (about 4 ounces)
1/3 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 tablespoons (1/4 stick) chilled unsalted butter, diced
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder
2 1/3 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon ground allspice
3/4 cup sour cream
1/4 cup whole milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
5 large eggs
6 ounces semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 1/2 cups powdered sugar
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder

Blend all ingredients in processor until nuts are finely chopped.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13 x 9 x 2-inch baking pan. Whisk first 7 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Whisk sour cream, milk and vanilla in small bowl to blend.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in both sugars. Beat in 3 eggs, 1 at a time. Beat in 1/2 cup dry ingredients. Beat in 2 eggs, 1 at a time. Beat in remaining dry ingredients in 3 additions alternately with sour cream mixture in 2 additions.
Spread 3 cups batter in prepared pan. Sprinkle with crumble; press lightly into batter. Spread remaining batter over crumble to cover. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack.
Melt chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water, stirring until just melted and smooth. Cool to room temperature. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, butter and vanilla in large bowl to blend. Beat in powdered sugar in 3 additions, then cooled chocolate and cocoa.
Spread top of cake with frosting. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Chill until frosting is set; cover and keep chilled. Let stand 1 hour at room temperature before serving.)

Apple-Cream Cheese Torte 
1 1/2 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1/2 cup chilled unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Pinch of salt
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/4 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
4 large Granny Smith apples, peeled, cored, thinly sliced (about 3 cups)
1/4 cup sliced almonds

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Wrap outside of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with foil. Combine all ingredients in large bowl. Using fingertips, mix until moist dough clumps form. Gather dough into ball. Press onto bottom and 3/4 inch up sides of pan. Freeze 10 minutes. Bake until crust is light golden, about 10 minutes. Remove from oven. Reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees F.
Beat all ingredients in large bowl until smooth. Pour filling into crust. Smooth top.
Combine sugar and cinnamon in large bowl. Add apple slices and toss to coat. Arrange atop filling. Sprinkle with almonds.
Bake torte until crust is deep golden and apples are tender, about 1 hour 30 minutes. Remove from oven; cool 1 hour. Cover; refrigerate overnight. (Torte can be prepared 3 days ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
Run small knife around pan sides to loosen torte. Remove pan sides. Place torte on platter. Serve cold.

Grandmother's Apple Cake 
2 tablespoons unsalted imported or organic butter
2 large Golden Delicious, Jonagold, or other baking apple, peeled, cored, and coarsely chopped
1 1/2 tablespoons Calvados (apple brandy)
1 1/4 cups sugar
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2/3 cup plain yogurt
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup vegetable oil
3 large eggs

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
Generously grease an 8-inch round cake pan (no need to grease if pan is nonstick).
Melt the butter in a medium skillet over medium-high heat. Sauté the apples, tossing occasionally, until golden brown, 5 to 7 minutes. Stir in the Calvados, 1 tablespoon of the sugar, and the cinnamon. Set aside until needed.
Whisk together the yogurt and the remaining sugar in a large bowl, until very smooth, about 2 minutes. Combine the flour and baking soda, then add the oil and eggs, whisking well after each addition. Stir the apple pieces into the batter.
Pour the batter into the prepared pan, spreading it evenly. Set on a sturdy baking sheet and bake for 45 to 55 minutes, or until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean. Allow to cool on a wire rack.
Note: The cake is best made several hours before serving, or better yet, the night before.

Chocolate Truffle Cake with Raspberries 
10 1/2 ounces Valrhona* or Lindt bittersweet chocolate
1 1/4 sticks (1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons) unsalted butter
2/3 cup sugar
5 large eggs
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
6 1/2 ounces Valrhona* or Lindt bittersweet chocolate
1/4 cup heavy cream
1/4 cup brewed espresso
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened well
1 tablespoon triple sec or other orange-flavored liqueur
3 half-pints fresh raspberries
*available at some specialty foods shops

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and butter a 10-inch springform pan.
Chop chocolate and cut butter into pieces. In a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water melt chocolate and butter with sugar, stirring until smooth (sugar will not be dissolved). Remove top of double boiler or bowl from heat and cool mixture to room temperature. Transfer mixture to a large bowl.
Separate eggs, putting yolks in a small bowl and whites in a large bowl. Add yolks 1 at a time to chocolate mixture, whisking well after each addition. With an electric mixer beat whites until they just hold soft peaks. Sift flour over chocolate mixture and with a whisk fold flour and half of whites into mixture gently but thoroughly. With a rubber spatula fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Pour batter into pan, smoothing top, and bake in middle of oven 40 to 45 minutes, or until a tester comes out with moist crumbs adhering. Cool cake completely in pan on a rack. Cake may be made up to this point 2 days ahead and kept in an airtight container at room temperature.
Chop chocolate and in a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water melt chocolate, stirring frequently until smooth. Remove top of double boiler or bowl from heat. While chocolate is melting, in a small saucepan bring cream just to a simmer and add espresso. Add cream mixture to chocolate with butter and liqueur and stir until smooth.
Remove side of pan and cut cake into 8 wedges. Invert wedges (so that top sides will be flat) onto a large rack set over a large shallow baking pan, spacing them at least 1 inch apart. Pour enough warm ganache evenly over wedges to coat them and let stand 5 minutes.
Scrape excess ganache from baking pan into bowl of ganache and pour ganache over wedges again, making sure they are coated completely. (Remaining ganache may be chilled, covered, and reheated for using as a chocolate sauce.) Let wedges stand at room temperature until ganache is set, at least 1 hour, and up to 6.
Just before serving, pick over raspberries and cover top of each wedge with raspberries.

Walnut Snowballs 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1 1/4 cups walnuts, toasted, cooled
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1 large egg yolk
5 teaspoons brandy
2 teaspoons vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Sift first 4 ingredients into medium bowl. Transfer 2 tablespoons flour mixture to processor; add walnuts. Process until walnuts are finely chopped.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add 1 cup powdered sugar and beat until well blended. Add egg yolk, brandy, and vanilla and beat to blend. Beat in flour mixture. Add walnut mixture; stir with spatula to blend. Using 1 tablespoon dough for each cookie, shape dough into balls; arrange on prepared sheets, spacing 1 inch apart.
Bake cookies 12 minutes. Reverse sheets. Bake cookies until brown on bottom, cracked on top and just beginning to color, about 12 minutes longer. Sift remaining 1 1/2 cups powdered sugar thickly over hot cookies and cool on sheets. (Can be made 4 days ahead. Store airtight between sheets of waxed paper at room temperature.)

Pistachio Apricot Oatmeal Cookies 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
1 large egg
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon cinnamon
1 1/2 cups old-fashioned rolled oats (not quick-cooking)
1/3 cup dried apricots (2 ounces), cut into 1/4-inch pieces
1/3 cup shelled pistachios (1 1/2 ounces; not dyed red), coarsely chopped

Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 baking sheets.
Beat together butter and sugars in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until fluffy, then beat in vanilla. Add egg and beat until combined well. Stir together flour, baking soda, salt, and cinnamon in a small bowl, then add to dough and mix at low speed until just combined. Fold in oats, apricots, and pistachios.
Spoon rounded tablespoons of dough about 2 inches apart onto baking sheets. Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until golden brown, 16 to 18 minutes. Transfer cookies with a spatula to racks. (Cookies will crisp as they cool.)

Golden Banana Cake 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon baking powder
pinch of baking soda
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 tablespoons olive oil
3/4 cup sugar
4 large eggs
1 extra-ripe medium banana, peeled and mashed

Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Butter an 8 1/2 x 4 1/2 x 2 1/2-inch loaf pan. Dust the pan with flour, tapping out the excess.
Sift together the flour, baking powder, and baking soda.
In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with the paddle attachment, mix together the butter, olive oil, and sugar at low speed. Increase the speed to medium and add the eggs one at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in the mashed banana. Add the flour mixture and mix just until combined. Scrape the batter into the prepared pan, smoothing the top with a spatula.
Bake the cake for 55 to 60 minutes, until the top is golden brown and a toothpick inserted in the center of the cake comes out clean. Cool the cake in the pan on a wire rack for 15 minutes. Unmold the cake and cool completely on the rack. Store in an airtight container at room temperature for 3 days, 1 week refrigerated, or 2 months frozen.

New York Cheesecake 
1 1 crumb-crust recipe, made with finely ground graham crackers
5 (8-oz) packages cream cheese, softened
1 3/4 cups sugar
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
Finely grated zest of 1 orange
Finely grated zest of 1 lemon
5 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
1/2 teaspoon vanilla

Make crumb crust as directed in separate recipe. Preheat oven to 550 degrees F.
Beat together cream cheese, sugar, flour, and zests with an electric mixer until smooth. Add eggs and yolks, 1 at a time, then vanilla, beating on low speed until each ingredient is incorporated and scraping down bowl between additions.
Put springform pan with crust in a shallow baking pan. Pour filling into crust (springform pan will be completely full) and bake in baking pan (to catch drips) in middle of oven 12 minutes, or until puffed. Reduce temperature to 200 degrees F and continue baking until cake is mostly firm (center will still be slightly wobbly when pan is gently shaken), about 1 hour more.
Run a knife around top edge of cake to loosen and cool completely in springform pan on a rack. Chill cake, loosely covered, at least 6 hours. Remove side of pan and transfer cake to a plate. Bring to room temperature before serving.

Never-Fail Cheesecakes 
1 1/2 pounds cream cheese
5 eggs
1 1/2 cups sugar, divided
1 1/2 pints sour cream, at room temperature
3 teaspoons vanilla, divided
Your choice of cherry pie filling, maraschino cherries, pineapple chunks, half an apricot, etc.

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Cream the cheese (easy to do if it's at room temperature). Add eggs, one at a time, and then beat in 1 cup of sugar and 1 1/2 teaspoons of vanilla. Using small muffin tins filled with paper liners, fill the tins to 1/8-inch from the top. Bake 25 to 30 minutes, or until tops begin to crack (if tops have not cracked after baking 30 minutes, remove them from the oven anyway, as they are adequately baked by that time).
While cakes are baking, mix sour cream with 1/2 cup sugar and 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla in a bowl.
Remove the cakes from the oven, leaving the oven on, and cool on wire cake racks in tins for 5 minutes, or until the cakes drop. Then cover the tops of the cakes with the sour cream mixture and put them back in oven for 5 more minutes. Remove the cakes from their tins, use a teaspoon to help get them out, and set them on wire racks to cool. Once they have cooled, put the cakes in the refrigerator. Before serving, add topping of your choice.

Chocolate Macaroon Bars 
4 large egg whites
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
a 7-ounce bag sweetened flaked coconut (about 2 2/3 cups)
1 1/2 cups semisweet chocolate chips
hot shortbread base

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
In a bowl whisk together whites, sugar, and vanilla until combined well and stir in flour and coconut. Sprinkle chocolate chips evenly over hot shortbread. Let chips melt and spread evenly over shortbread. Drop small spoonfuls of coconut mixture onto chocolate and with a fork spread evenly. Bake in middle of oven until top is golden, about 30 minutes. Cool completely in pan and cut into 24 bars. Bar cookies keep, covered, 5 days at room temperature.

Chocolate Heart Layer Cake with Chocolate-Cinnamon Mousse 
4 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
1/3 cup all purpose flour
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 large eggs
3/4 cup sugar
1 cup heavy whipping cream
4 cinnamon sticks, broken in half
2/3 cup cherry jam
2 tablespoons kirsch (clear cherry brandy)
4 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
1/2 cup heavy whipping cream
1/4 cup water
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
1 teaspoon chai-spiced tea leaves or Lapsang souchong smoked black tea leaves (from 1 tea bag)
5 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Place 8x8x2-inch heart-shaped cake ring on sheet of foil. Wrap foil up sides of ring. Brush foil and inside of ring with 1 tablespoon butter; dust with flour. Place on baking sheet.
Sift flour, cocoa, and salt into medium bowl. Combine eggs and sugar in large metal bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water (do not allow bottom of bowl to touch water). Whisk until sugar dissolves, about 2 minutes. Remove from over water. Using electric mixer, beat mixture until thick and billowy and heavy ribbon falls when beaters are lifted, about 5 minutes. Sift half of dry ingredients over; fold in gently. Repeat with remaining dry ingredients. Transfer 1/4 cup batter to small bowl; fold in 3 tablespoons butter. Gently fold butter mixture into batter; do not overmix or batter will deflate. Transfer batter to ring.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Transfer cake with foil to rack; cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and store at room temperature.)
Bring whipping cream and cinnamon sticks just to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Remove from heat; let steep 1 hour at room temperature. Cover and refrigerate cinnamon cream overnight.
Blend jam and kirsch in small bowl. Cut around sides of cake; lift off ring. Using metal spatula, loosen cake from foil and transfer to rack. Using serrated knife, cut cake horizontally in half. Using tart pan bottom, transfer top cake layer to work surface; turn cut side up. Spread half of jam on cut side of both cake layers.
Strain cinnamon cream into large bowl; beat until soft peaks form. Stir finely chopped chocolate in heavy small saucepan over low heat until smooth. Quickly fold warm chocolate into whipped cream (chocolate must be warm to blend smoothly). Immediately drop mousse by dollops over bottom cake layer; spread to within 3/4 inch of edge. Gently press second layer, jam side down, atop mousse. Smooth sides of cake with offset spatula. Chill assembled cake on rack while preparing glaze.
Bring cream, 1/4 cup water, corn syrup, and tea to boil in small saucepan, stirring constantly. Remove from heat; steep 5 minutes. Strain into another small saucepan; return to boil.
Remove from heat. Add coarsely chopped chocolate; whisk until smooth. Cool glaze until thickened, but still pourable, about 30 minutes. Place rack with cake over baking sheet. Slowly pour glaze over cake to cover, using spatula if necessary to spread evenly. Chill until glaze is firm, at least 2 hours and up to 1 day. Place cake on platter and serve.

Michael's Chocolate Obsession 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
5 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 tablespoon grated orange peel
3 large eggs
Pinch of salt
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Spray round 6 1/2-inch-diameter disposable aluminum pan or 9 1/4x6 1/2x1-inch rectangular disposable aluminum pan with nonstick spray. Stir chocolate and butter in medium metal bowl over saucepan of simmering water until melted and smooth. Stir in orange peel. Remove bowl from over water.
Using electric mixer, beat eggs and salt in large bowl until tripled in volume, about 5 minutes. Fold 1/4 of egg mixture into lukewarm chocolate mixture to lighten. Gently fold chocolate mixture into remaining egg mixture just until blended (do not overblend or mixture will deflate).
Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until sides are set and center is soft, about 25 minutes for round cake or 12 minutes for rectangular cake. Transfer pan to rack and cool 30 minutes.
Using scissors, cut several slits in sides of round pan or corners of rectangular pan. Fold down pan sides. Using large metal spatula, transfer cake from pan to platter. Sprinkle with powdered sugar. Serve warm.

Farmer Cheese Cheesecake 
1 crumb-crust recipe , made with finely ground graham crackers
5 (8-ounce) packages farmer cheese (or cottage cheese), softened
3 3/4 tablespoons all-purpose flour
Finely grated zest of 1 orange
Finely grated zest of 1 lemon
5 large eggs
2 large egg yolks
1/2 teaspoon vanilla

Active time: 45 min. Start to finish: 10 hr. Make crumb crust as directed in separate recipe. Preheat oven to 550 degrees F.
Purée farmer cheese (or cottage cheese) with sugar in a food processor until completely smooth. Then beat together cheese, sugar, flour, and zests with an electric mixer until smooth. Add eggs and yolks, 1 at a time, then vanilla, beating on low speed until each ingredient is incorporated and scraping down bowl between additions.
Put springform pan with crust in a shallow baking pan. Pour filling into crust (springform pan will be completely full) and bake in baking pan (to catch drips) in middle of oven 12 minutes, or until puffed. Reduce temperature to 200 degrees F and continue baking until cake is mostly firm (center will still be slightly wobbly when pan is gently shaken), about 1 hour more.
Run a knife around top edge of cake to loosen and cool completely in springform pan on a rack. Chill cake, loosely covered, at least 6 hours. Remove side of pan and transfer cake to a plate. Bring to room temperature before serving.

Dark Chocolate Shortbread 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup superfine granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/8 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder

Blend butter, sugar, vanilla, and salt in a bowl with a fork until combined well. Sift flour and cocoa into butter mixture and blend with fork just until mixture forms a soft dough.
Divide dough in half and pat out with floured fingertips into 2 (6- to 6 1/2-inch) rounds on an ungreased large baking sheet. Chill dough, uncovered, until firm, about 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F while dough chills.
Prick dough all over with fork and bake shortbreads in middle of oven until centers are dry to the touch and edges are slightly darker, about 15 minutes. Cool on baking sheet on a rack 10 minutes, then cut each shortbread into 8 wedges with a large heavy knife. Transfer to rack to cool.

Pineapple Upside-Down Cakenullwith Macadamia Nuts 
12 tablespoons (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2/3 cup (packed) brown sugar
1/2 cup chopped macadamia nuts
1/4 cup dried tart cherries*
2 tablespoons minced peeled fresh ginger
1/2 medium pineapple, peeled, quartered lengthwise, cored, cut crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick pieces
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons finely grated orange peel
3 large eggs, separated
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2/3 cup buttermilk
Whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Melt 6 tablespoons butter in 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides set atop burner on medium-low heat. Stir in sugar, nuts, cherries and ginger. Cook until sugar mixture bubbles, stirring often, about 6 minutes. Cool slightly. Arrange pineapple pieces, overlapping slightly and in concentric circles, over sugar mixture. Set aside.
Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat 3/4 cup sugar and orange peel in large bowl until fragrant. Beat in 6 tablespoons butter until light. Beat in yolks 1 at a time. Beat in lemon juice and vanilla. Beat in flour mixture alternately with buttermilk.
Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Add 2 tablespoons sugar and beat until firm peaks form. Fold into batter. Spoon into pan atop pineapple.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Transfer to rack; cool 5 minutes. Invert onto platter. Serve with whipped cream.

Chocolate Mint Cookies 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (preferably Dutch-process)
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 teaspoon peppermint extract
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup sugar
1 large egg
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped

Whisk flour, cocoa powder, and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth. Beat in peppermint extract and vanilla extract. Beat in sugar in 3 additions. Add egg and beat until blended. Add dry ingredients and beat just until blended (dough will be sticky).
Divide dough between 2 sheets of plastic wrap. Using plastic wrap as aid, form dough on each into 2-inch-diameter log. Wrap with plastic and refrigerate dough until well chilled, at least 2 hours. (Dough can be prepared 1 day ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
Position 1 rack in center and 1 rack in top third of oven; preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Unwrap cookie dough logs; roll briefly on work surface to form smooth round logs. Cut logs crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick rounds. Place rounds on prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Bake cookies until tops and edges are dry to touch, about 15 minutes. Transfer baking sheets with cookies to racks; cool completely. Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted and smooth. Remove from over water. Cool melted chocolate until slightly thickened but still pourable, about 10 minutes. Dip fork into melted chocolate, then wave fork back and forth over cookies, drizzling melted chocolate thickly over cookies in zigzag pattern. Refrigerate cookies on baking sheets until chocolate is set, about 10 minutes. (Cookies can be made 1 week ahead. Refrigerate in airtight container between sheets of parchment paper or waxed paper.)

Chocolate Peanut Butter Torte 
1 prebaked pie shell
2 large eggs, at room temperature
4 large egg yolks, at room temperature
1/3 cup sugar
1 cup peanut butter
7 tablespoons unsalted butter
3 ounces bittersweet chocolate
1/4 cup lightly salted peanuts, coarsely chopped

Heat oven to 325 degrees F. In a mixing bowl, beat eggs, yolks, and sugar with electric mixer on medium-high speed until it ribbons, about 6 minutes. Meanwhile, in a microwavable bowl, melt peanut butter, butter, and chocolate on high 1 minute. Stir and repeat until mixture is smooth. Cool.
In three additions, fold egg mixture into chocolate mixture. Pour into a prepared pie shell. Sprinkle peanuts over top of pie. Bake 12 minutes. Surface will be soft and somewhat liquid in the center. Allow to cool for 30 minutes and serve. Filling will be slightly runny and ooze out of the pie wedge.

Mango Upside-Down Cake 
2 (1-lb) firm-ripe mangoes, peeled
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup granulated sugar
3 large eggs, 2 of them separated
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup mango nectar

Standing each mango upright, remove flesh from pit by cutting a thick lengthwise slice from each broad side. (Be careful: Peeled mango is slippery.) Put slices on a work surface and cut lengthwise into 3/8-inch-thick slices.
Melt butter in a small heavy saucepan over moderate heat, then stir in brown sugar. Simmer, stirring, until butter is incorporated, 1 to 2 minutes. Spread mixture in bottom of a buttered 9- by 2-inch round baking pan and arrange mango on top, overlapping slices.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt. Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until light and fluffy, about 6 minutes. Add whole egg and yolks 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla. Add half of flour mixture and mix at low speed until just combined. Mix in mango nectar, then add remaining flour mixture, mixing until just combined.
Beat egg whites in another bowl with cleaned beaters until they just hold stiff peaks, then fold into batter gently but thoroughly.
Gently spoon batter over mango topping and spread evenly. Bake in middle of oven until golden brown and a tester comes out clean, 55 to 60 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 10 minutes. Run a thin knife around inside edge of pan, then invert a plate over pan and invert cake onto plate. Cool completely on plate on rack.
Serve cake at room temperature.

Plum Hazelnut Torte 
1 1/2 pounds Italian prune plums
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup hazelnuts
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour a 9-inch springform pan.
Quarter and pit plums. Coarsely chop half of plums and in a bowl toss with 2 tablespoons sugar. In another bowl combine remaining plums with 2 tablespoons sugar. On a baking sheet in middle of oven lightly toast hazelnuts until fragrant and insides are golden, 10 to 15 minutes. Cool nuts and grind fine in a food processor.
In a bowl whisk together hazelnuts, flour, baking powder, salt, and allspice. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat butter and remaining 3/4 cup sugar until light and fluffy. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating after each addition, and beat in vanilla and flour mixture until batter is just combined.
Drain chopped plums in a sieve, pressing on fruit, and pat dry with paper towels. Stir plums into batter and spread evenly in pan.
Drain quartered plums in sieve, pressing on fruit, and arrange, skin sides up, over batter. Bake torte in middle of oven 1 hour and 20 minutes, or until golden brown and a tester comes out clean. Cool torte in pan on a rack 30 minutes. Remove side of pan and cool completely.

Country Pear Cake 
2 large eggs
1/3 cup olive oil (do not use extra-virgin)
1/4 cup whole milk
1 tablespoon grated lemon peel
2/3 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
1 1/2 cups self-rising flour
4 Bartlett pears (1 3/4 pounds), peeled, quartered, cored, cut crosswise into 1/4-inch-thick slices (about 3 cups)
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Oil and flour 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom with parchment paper. Whisk eggs, oil, milk, and lemon peel in large bowl. Whisk in 2/3 cup sugar. Add flour; whisk until batter is smooth. Mix in pears. Transfer batter to pan. Sprinkle top with 1 tablespoon sugar. Bake until brown on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool in pan on rack. (Can be made 8 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature.)
Using sharp knife, cut around edge of cake to loosen. Turn cake out onto rack. Invert onto platter right-side up. Sift powdered sugar over top.

Mississippi Mud Cake with Bourbon-Espresso Glaze 
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup unsalted butter, cut into pieces
6 ounces unsweetened chocolate, finely chopped
1/2 cup brewed espresso or very strong coffee
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 cup bourbon
4 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces
6 tablespoons (packed) golden brown sugar
2 teaspoons instant espresso powder
6 tablespoons whipping cream
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar, sifted
2 tablespoons bourbon
Vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 12-cup Bundt pan. Mix flour, baking soda and salt in medium bowl. Combine butter, chocolate and brewed espresso in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over low heat until chocolate and butter melt (mixture may look curdled). Remove from heat. Add sugar and bourbon. Whisk until sugar dissolves and mixture is smooth. Using electric mixer, beat eggs and vanilla in large bowl until blended. Gradually beat in chocolate mixture. Add flour mixture and stir just until blended. Transfer batter to pan; smooth top.
Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean and cake begins to pull away from sides of pan, about 45 minutes. Cool in pan on rack 15 minutes. Invert cake onto rack; cool completely.
Stir butter, golden brown sugar and instant espresso powder in small saucepan over medium heat until butter melts. Stir in cream. Simmer 1 minute. Remove from heat. Gradually add powdered sugar, whisking until smooth. Mix in bourbon. Cool slightly. Place cake atop rack on baking sheet. Slowly drizzle glaze over cake, allowing glaze to run down sides of cake and cover as much of cake as possible. Spoon any glaze drippings from baking sheet over cake. Let stand 30 minutes. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome. Let stand at room temperature.)
Serve cake with vanilla ice cream.

Mascarpone Cheesecake with Quince Compote 
1 1/3 cups pecans, toasted
1/2 cup walnuts, toasted
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
3 1/2 cups whipping cream
1/4 cup water
3 1/2 teaspoons unflavored gelatin (from 2 envelopes)
3 1/2 cups plus 2 tablespoons mascarpone cheese* (about 28 1/2 ounces; from four 8-ounce containers)
1 1/4 cups powdered sugar, sifted
Quince Compote

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Coarsely grind nuts with brown sugar in processor. Blend in melted butter. Press mixture over bottom (not sides) of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 1/2-inch-high sides. Bake until crust is set, about 12 minutes. Cool crust completely.
Pour 3 cups cream into medium bowl. Pour 1/4 cup water into small heatproof bowl; sprinkle gelatin over. Let stand 15 minutes. Place bowl with gelatin in small skillet of barely simmering water; stir until gelatin dissolves, about 2 minutes. Remove bowl from water. Pour remaining 1/2 cup cream into gelatin. Pour gelatin mixture into cream in bowl; whisk gently until well blended.
Using electric mixer, beat mascarpone and powdered sugar in large bowl until smooth. Beat in cream-gelatin mixture just until smooth. Pour filling over cooled crust. Cover and chill overnight. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Keep chilled.)
Using small sharp knife, cut around pan sides to loosen cheesecake. Remove pan sides. Place cake on platter. Cut cake into wedges and serve with compote.
*Italian cream cheese available at Italian markets and many supermarkets.

Gail's Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 stick unsalted butter
6 tablespoons granulated sugar
6 tablespoons brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 egg
1 cup semi-sweet morsels

1. Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Prepare baking sheets by spraying lightly with Pam.
2. Cream butter, both sugars, and vanilla. Beat in egg. Add baking soda and flour mixing only until smooth. Fold in chocolate chips. Use 16x24-inch baking sheets and drop cookies in 3 rows of 4.
3. Bake cookies, two baking sheets at a time. After 5 minutes take cookies out of the oven and rap on the stovetop until they deflate. Then return sheets to oven, placing the top sheet on the bottom rack, and the bottom sheet on the top rack. Continue to bake until cookies are golden brown, 4-6 more minutes.
4. Transfer immediately from cookie sheet to wire rack for cooling.

Cream Cheese Strudel Cookies 
1 cup all purpose flour
4 ounces chilled cream cheese, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1/2 cup apricot jam
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut
1 cup dried tart or Bing cherries

Combine first 3 ingredients in processor; blend until clumps form. Gather dough into ball; flatten into square. Wrap in plastic; freeze until cold enough to roll, about 15 minutes, or refrigerate up to 1 day.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter baking sheet. Cut dough crosswise in half. Roll out each piece on floured surface to 12x8-inch rectangle. Spread each with 1/4 cup jam. Top each with 1/2 cup coconut and 1/2 cup cherries. Starting at 1 long side, roll dough up jelly-roll style; seal long seam. Cut each roll crosswise into 12 pieces. Arrange pieces, cut side up, on prepared sheet. Flatten each to 1/2-inch thickness.
Bake cookies until golden brown, about 25 minutes. Cool on rack.

Warm Apple-Cornmeal Upside Down Cake 
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup plus 3/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 pounds Braeburn or Golden Delicious apples (about 4 medium), peeled, quartered, cored, each quarter cut into 2 wedges
3/4 cup all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup yellow cornmeal
1/2 cup boiling water
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup whole milk
Vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 1 1/2-inch-high sides; line pan with 10-inch-diameter parchment paper round (parchment will come 1/2 inch up sides of pan). Butter parchment. Melt 2 tablespoons butter in 10-inch-diameter nonstick skillet over medium heat. Add 1/2 cup sugar and cook until sugar dissolves and mixture turns deep golden brown, stirring occasionally, about 6 minutes. Add apple wedges and gently shake skillet to distribute caramel evenly. Cover and cook until apples release their juices, about 5 minutes. Uncover and cook until apples are tender and caramel thickens and coats apples, stirring occasionally, about 13 minutes. Transfer apples and caramel syrup to prepared cake pan, spreading evenly.
Whisk flour, baking powder, and salt in small bowl to blend. Place cornmeal in large bowl; pour 1/2 cup boiling water over and stir to blend. Add 6 tablespoons butter and 3/4 cup sugar to cornmeal mixture. Using electric mixer, beat until well blended. Beat in eggs and vanilla. Beat in flour mixture alternately with milk in 2 additions each. Pour batter over apples in pan.
Bake cake until golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cake in pan 5 minutes. Run small knife between cake and pan sides to loosen cake. Carefully invert cake onto ovenproof or microwavable platter and peel off parchment. Cool 15 minutes. (Cake can be made up to 6 hours ahead. Rewarm in 350 degrees F oven about 10 minutes or microwave on medium just until slightly warm, about 2 minutes.)
Cut cake into wedges, place on plates, and serve warm with a scoop of vanilla ice cream.

Roasted Pear and Cinnamon Clafouti 
4 large Bosc pears, peeled, cored, quartered
1/4 cup pure maple syrup
3 large eggs
1 1/3 cups half and half
3/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup all purpose flour
1/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon (packed) golden brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
Pinch of salt

Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Butter 9-inch cast-iron skillet. Heat over medium-high heat. Add pears, rounded side down, to skillet and cook until golden brown, about 3 minutes per side. Spoon syrup over pears. Transfer skillet to oven and roast pears until tender, turning and basting once, about 10 minutes. Remove skillet from oven and bring pear mixture to boil over high heat; boil until almost all juices have evaporated, about 2 minutes. Cool to room temperature. Reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees F.
Place eggs, half and half, and vanilla in blender and process until smooth. Add flour, 1/4 cup sugar, 3/4 teaspoon cinnamon, and pinch of salt; blend to combine. Pour batter over pears in skillet. Bake until center is set and clafouti is puffed and golden brown at edges, about 40 minutes. Mix remaining 1 tablespoon sugar and 3/4 teaspoon cinnamon in small bowl. Sprinkle over clafouti; serve warm.

Lemon Thumbprint Cookies 
1 cup unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
2 large egg yolks
3 tablespoons grated lemon peel
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon salt
21/2 cups all purpose flour
6 tablespoons (about) jam or jelly

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 baking sheets. Using electric mixer, beat 1 cup butter and sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in egg yolks, lemon peel, lemon juice and salt. Add flour in 2 additions and beat just until moist clumps form. Gather dough together in bowl to bind dough. Form dough into 1-inch balls. Place balls on prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Using finger, make deep indentation in center of each ball.
Bake cookies until firm to touch and golden on bottom, about 22 minutes. Remove from oven. Immediately fill indentation in each cookie with scant 1/2 teaspoon jam or jelly. Transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store between sheets of waxed paper in airtight container at room temperature. Cookies will soften slightly.)

Apple and Walnut Sheet Cake with Caramel Sauce 
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 pounds Golden Delicious apples, peeled, cored, coarsely grated
1 cup walnuts, toasted, chopped
Purchased caramel sauce, heated

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13x9x2-inch metal baking pan. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, butter, eggs, and vanilla extract in large bowl until smooth. Add flour, cinnamon, baking soda, baking powder, and salt and beat just until blended. Stir in apples, then walnuts. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until top browns and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Cool in pan.
Cut cake into squares and serve with warm caramel sauce.

Oatmeal Cookies 
1 3/4 cups old-fashioned rolled oats
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 sticks unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup packed light brown sugar
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Grease baking sheets.
Stir together oats, flour, cinnamon, baking soda, and salt. Beat together butter, brown sugar, and granulated sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Add egg and vanilla and beat until combined well. Add oat mixture and beat until just combined.
Drop dough by heaping tablespoons 2 inches apart onto baking sheets and flatten mounds slightly with moistened fingers. Bake cookies in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until golden, about 12 minutes total. Transfer to racks to cool.

Wedding Cake with Blackberries and Roses 
12 large eggs
3/4 cup milk
2 tablespoons vanilla
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
6 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
6 sticks unsalted butter (1 1/2 pounds), softened
3 cups sugar
4 cups lemon syrup
2 1/3 cups rose hip, rose fruit, or seedless blackberry jam (about 3 jars, 12 ounces each)
Cream-cheese frosting
8 (1/2-pint) containers blackberries (about 8 cups)
1 (12- by 2-inch) cake pan
1 (9- by 2-inch) cake pan
1 (6- by 2-inch) cake pan
2 packages Magi-Cake or homemade foil strips
1 (12-inch) serrated knife
4 (11-inch) cardboard rounds
4 (8-inch) cardboard rounds
4 (6-inch) cardboard rounds, trimmed to 5-inch rounds
1 medium-size piping bag and 3/16-inch plain tip
Cake base or large platter
5 (8-inch) plastic straws
Cake-decorating turntable (optional but very helpful)
Garnish: petals from 3 large organic and nontoxic roses and blackberries (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease cake pans and line bottom of each with a round of wax paper. Grease paper and dust pans with flour, knocking out excess. Wet Magi-Cake strips and fasten around each pan.
Whisk together eggs, milk, and vanilla. Whisk salt into flour in another bowl. Beat butter (it should be room temperature) with sugar in a 5-qt. standing electric mixer on medium speed until light and fluffy, about 5 minutes. Add flour and egg mixture alternately in 3 batches, ending with egg mixture and beating on low speed just until incorporated.
Divide batter among pans so each is filled to 1 inch from top. (If you have a wall oven or other small oven, see cooks' notes, below.) Bake in upper and lower thirds of oven, with 12-inch pan on upper rack, 20 minutes. Gently turn pans in place so that part of cake that was toward back of oven now faces front and bake cakes until a tester comes out of each with a few crumbs adhering, 10 to 20 minutes more, depending on cake size. Transfer each cake as done to a rack to cool. Cool cakes slightly (9-inch and 6-inch cakes for 10 minutes; 12-inch cake for 20 minutes) and invert onto racks, peeling off paper. Turn cakes right side up and cool completely.
Clean pans. Make second batch of batter; bake and cool cakes in same manner.
Work with 12-inch cakes first. Trim top of each with long serrated knife to make level, then cut cakes horizontally in half. Put each 12-inch layer, cut side up, on an 11-inch cardboard round. Brush cut sides generously with syrup. Stir jam until smooth and spread about 2/3 cup on a 12-inch layer. Invert another 12-inch layer (with cardboard), cut side down, onto jam. Discard top cardboard round and spread about 2 1/2 cups frosting on top. Sprinkle with 1 layer of blackberries to cover frosting. (If berries are 1 inch or larger, halve them lengthwise.) Slide the third 12-inch layer, syrup side up, onto berries, discarding cardboard, and press gently. Spread about 1/2 cup jam on layer and invert the last 12-inch layer (with cardboard), cut side down, onto jam, then discard cardboard.
Spoon 2 cups frosting onto 12-inch tier and cover cake with a thin coating. (This is called crumb-coating. It tamps down any loose crumbs to keep them out of the top layer of frosting and fills in any crevices.) Chill 12-inch tier while working on remaining tiers.
Trim and halve 9-inch cakes similarly and put on 8-inch rounds. Brush cut sides generously with syrup. Assemble and crumb-coat 9-inch tier in same manner (use about 1/3 cup jam and 1 1/4 cups frosting between layers; crumb-coat with about 1 1/2 cups frosting). Chill 9-inch tier.
Repeat procedure to make 6-inch tier (use about 2 1/2 tablespoons jam and about 3/4 cup frosting between layers; crumb-coat with about 3/4 cup frosting) and chill until firm.
Reserve 2 cups frosting for piping. Place 12-inch tier on cake base (preferably on a cake turntable) and frost. Then frost remaining tiers. Chill frosted tiers (do not stack) at least 4 hours.
Cut 3 straws in half and insert 1 straw piece in center of 12-inch tier all the way to bottom. Insert remaining 5 straw pieces in a circle about 1 1/2 inches from center straw and trim straws level with top of tier. (Straws support tiers.) Carefully put 9-inch tier (still on cardboard) in center of bottom tier. Cut remaining 2 straws in half and insert into middle tier in similar manner, with 1 straw piece in center and remaining 3 straw pieces in a circle around it. Carefully put 6-inch tier (still on cardboard) on top, in center of middle tier.
Fill in any gaps between tiers and any imperfections with frosting and transfer the remainder to pastry bag fitted with 3/16-inch tip. Pipe a decorative border around the bottom edge of each tier. Save remaining frosting for touch-ups—just in case.
Cake should come to room temperature before serving (it may stand at cool room temperature about 6 hours). Garnish cake with roses and serve slices with blackberries.

Gingersnap Cookies (Bubbee's Gingies) 
1 cup unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar plus additional for sprinkling
1 large egg
2 tablespoons finely grated peeled fresh gingerroot
2 tablespoons dark corn syrup
1 1/2 teaspoons freshly grated orange zest
1 tablespoon fresh orange juice
3 1/4 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1 tablespoon ground ginger

In a bowl with an electric mixer beat butter with 1 1/2 cups sugar until light and fluffy and add egg, beating until combined well. Beat in fresh gingerroot, corn syrup, zest, and orange juice. Into mixture sift remaining ingredients and beat just until combined well.
Halve dough and on a sheet of wax paper form each piece into a 10-inch log. Chill logs, wrapped in wax paper, at least 1 day and up to 1 week.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and lightly grease baking sheets.
Cut logs into 1/4-inch-thick slices and arrange 2 inches apart on baking sheets. Lightly sprinkle cookies with additional sugar and bake in batches in middle of oven 10 to 15 minutes, or until golden. Transfer cookies to racks to cool. Makes about 80 cookies.

Citrus Chiffon Cake 
1 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
5 tablespoons canola oil
1/3 cup fresh orange juice
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh orange zest
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh lemon zest
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
confectioners' sugar for sprinkling
a 1 1/2-quart (about 8-inch) Kugelhupf or bundt pan
Citrus Syrup

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour pan, knocking out excess flour.
Into a large bowl sift together flour, 1/2 cup granulated sugar, baking powder, and salt. Separate eggs. In a small bowl whisk together yolks, oil, orange juice, zests, and vanilla and whisk mixture into flour mixture until batter is smooth.
In another large bowl with an electric mixer beat whites with cream of tartar until they just hold soft peaks. With mixer on low speed gradually add remaining 1/4 cup granulated sugar and beat until whites hold stiff, glossy peaks. Stir about one third whites into batter to lighten and fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Spoon batter into pan (batter will reach top of pan).
Bake cake in middle of oven until golden and a tester comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Immediately invert pan onto a rack and cool cake completely in pan upside down on rack. Run a thin knife around outer edge of pan and turn cake out of pan onto a serving plate. Cake may be made 2 days ahead and kept in an airtight container at cool room temperature.
Sprinkle cake with confectioners' sugar and serve, sliced, with syrup.

Saffron Cakes 
a 1/4-ounce package active dry yeast (2 1/2 teaspoons)
1 teaspoon granulated sugar
2 cups lukewarm water
3 tablespoons boiling water
a slightly rounded 1/4 teaspoon saffron threads
5 1/2 cups bread flour
1 tablespoon nonfat powdered milk
4 tablespoons superfine sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1/2 cup chopped glacéed orange peel*
1/2 cup golden raisins
1/2 cup dried currants
*available at specialty foods shops and some supermarkets

In a small bowl combine yeast and granulated sugar and stir in 1 1/4 cups lukewarm water. Let mixture stand until foamy, about 10 minutes. In another small bowl combine boiling water and saffron.
Into a bowl sift 1 1/2 cups flour and stir in yeast mixture and powdered milk, stirring to make a batter. Let batter rise, covered with plastic wrap, in a warm place 30 minutes.
In bowl of a standing electric mixer stir together remaining 4 cups flour, superfine sugar, and salt and blend in butter until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add batter, saffron mixture, and remaining 3/4 cup lukewarm water and with paddle attachment beat on low speed until smooth, soft, and sticky. Let dough rise, covered with plastic wrap, in a warm place until doubled in bulk, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. and butter eighteen 1/2-cup muffin tins.
Punch down dough and beat with paddle attachment on low speed 5 minutes. Add orange peel, raisins, and currants and beat until combined well. With a 1/4-cup measure scoop dough into muffin tins and let rise, covered with buttered wax paper and kitchen towels, in a warm place until dough is level with tops of tins, about 30 minutes.
Bake cakes in middle of oven 20 minutes, or until golden, and cool on racks. Cakes may be made 1 day ahead and cooled before keeping in airtight containers.

Tangerine Sponge Custard 
1/3 cup sugar
1 tablespoon minced tangerine peel
1 tablespoon butter, room temperature
2 egg yolks
3 tablespoons all purpose flour
2/3 cup fresh tangerine juice
2/3 cup low-fat milk
3 egg whites

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 8-inch diameter baking dish with 2-inch-high sides.Combine first 3 ingredients in large bowl. Stir until well mixed. Mix in egg yolk and flour. Stir in tangerine juice and milk. Beat egg whites in another large bowl until medium peaks form. Fold egg whites into tangerine mixture. Pour into prepared dish. Place soufflé dish in large shallow pan. Add enough water to pan to come 1 inch up sides of dish. Bake until sponge is set, about 45 minutes. Serve hot or cold.

Blueberry Coffeecake 
1/4 cup salad oil
1 beaten egg
1/2 cup milk
1 1/2 cups sifted all-purpose flour
3/4 cup sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup brown sugar
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 cup broken walnuts
1 tablespoon melted butter
3/4 cup fresh or thawed frozen blueberries

Combine salad oil, egg, and milk. Sift together dry ingredients and add them to the milk mixture. Mix well. In another bowl, combine all ingredients for topping.
Pour cake batter into a greased 9 x 9 x 2-inch pan. Spread blueberries evenly over batter. Top that with the cinnamon nut mixture. Bake in 375 degrees F oven 25 to 30 minutes.

Peanut Butter Pattie Cakes 
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup unsalted butter, chilled
1/3 cup buttermilk
1 large egg
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 box Peanut Butter Patties Girl Scout cookies, crushed
8 ounces cream cheese
1 tablespoon honey
4 ounces white chocolate, melted
1/2 cup chopped peanuts

Preheat oven to 375 degrees. In a large bowl, stir together flour, sugar, cocoa, cream of tartar, baking soda, and salt. Cut the butter into 1/2 cubes and distribute them over the flour mixture. With a pastry blender, cut the butter until the mixture resembles coarse crumbs. In a small bowl, stir together the buttermilk, egg, and vanilla. Add the milk mixture to the flour mixture and stir to combine. The dough will be very sticky. Drop the dough in spoonfuls onto a greased baking sheet. Bake for about 15 minutes.
Mix cream cheese and honey in food processor until light and fluffy.
Cut all the shortcakes in half widthwise (like an English muffin). Spread the shortcake halves with the cream cheese mixture and top with crushed Peanut Butter Patties Girl Scout cookies. Put all of the halves together (like a sandwich). Drizzle melted white chocolate over the top and sprinkle with crushed peanuts.

Chocolate-Orange Decadence 
2 medium oranges
1 1/3 cups sugar
1/4 cup orange marmalade
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
4 large eggs, room temperature
2 1/2 cups cake flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 cup orange juice
2 1/2 cups whipping cream
9 tablespoons unsalted butter
30 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate,chopped
7 tablespoons Grand Marnier or orange juice
3 tablespoons thawed frozen orange juice concentrate
2 tablespoons minced orange peel
6 tablespoons orange marmalade
6 tablespoons Grand Marnier or orange juice
3 1/2 1/2-pint baskets of raspberries (or 5 1/4 cups frozen unsweetened raspberries, thawed, drained
Mint sprigs

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line pan bottoms with waxed paper. Using vegetable peeler, remove peel from oranges in strips. Coarsely chop peel in processor, stopping occasionally to scrap down sides of bowl. Add 1/3 cup sugar and blend until peel is minced. Add marmalade and puree. Using electric mixer, cream butter with pureed mixture and vanilla in large bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in remaining 1 cup sugar. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Sift dry ingredients into small bowl. Mix dry ingredients into batter alternately with orange juice.
Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until tops are golden brown and tester inserted in centers comes out clean, about 38 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Run sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks; cool. Peel off paper.
Bring cream and butter to simmer in heavy large saucepan. Reduce heat to low. Add chopped chocolate and stir until melted. Mix in remaining ingredients. Pour ganache into large bowl. Freeze until very thick but still spreadable, stirring frequently, about 1 hour 15 minutes.
Melt marmalade in heavy small saucepan over low heat. Remove from heat. Mix in Grand Marnier.
Cut each cake into 2 layers. Place 1 layer on plate. Brush with 1/4 of glaze. Spread 1 cup ganache over. Top with second cake layer. Brush with 1/4 of glaze. Spread 3/4 cup ganache over. Top with 1 1/2 baskets berries (about 2 1/2 cups). Spread 1/2 cup ganache over third cake layer. Invert, chocolate side down, over berries. Brush with 1/4 of glaze. Spread 1 cup ganache over. Top with fourth cake layer. Brush with remaining glaze. Spread 3/4 cup ganache over top of cake. Spoon 1 cup ganache into pastry bag fitted with medium star top. Spread remaining ganache over sides of cake, drawing icing spatula up to create vertical lines. Pipe decorative border of ganache around top and bottom edges of cake. Freeze cake 20 minutes. Arrange remaining berries atop cake, covering completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover cake loosely with plastic wrap and refrigerate.)
Garnish cake with mint sprigs. Serve cake at room temperature.

Old-Fashioned Gingerbread 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
2 large eggs
1/2 cup molasses (not blackstrap)
2/3 cup hot water

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Sift together flour, baking soda, spices, and salt into a bowl.
Beat together butter and brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at moderately high speed until pale and fluffy, 3 to 5 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in molasses. (Batter may look separated.) Mix in flour mixture at low speed, then water, mixing until batter is smooth, about 1 minute.
Pour batter into a buttered 9-inch square metal baking pan (2 inches deep). Bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, 35 to 40 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack, about 20 minutes, then serve warm.

Butter Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla

Into a bowl sift together flour, salt, and baking powder. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat butter until creamy. Gradually add sugar, beating until mixture is light and fluffy. Add egg and vanilla and beat until combined well. Gradually add flour mixture, beating until mixture just forms a dough.
Divide dough between 2 large sheets of wax paper and form each half into a 10- x 1 1/2-inch log, wrapping it in wax paper. Chill logs until firm, at least 4 hours, and up to 5 days. Dough may be frozen, wrapped in foil, 2 months. Let dough soften slightly before cutting. Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. and lightly butter a baking sheet.
Cut dough into 1/8-inch-thick slices and arrange slices about 1/2 inch apart on baking sheet. Bake cookies in batches in middle of oven until golden around edges, 10 to 12 minutes, and transfer with a metal spatula to a rack to cool. Cookies may be kept in an airtight container at room temperature 5 days.

Black Gold Cookies 
3 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped coarse
18 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped coarse
1 stick (1/2 cup) plus 1 tablespoon unsalted butter, softened
3 large eggs
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon instant espresso powder
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
6 tablespoons sifted all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1 1/2 cups walnuts
1 1/2 cups pecans

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F..
In a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water melt unsweetened chocolate, 9 ounces semisweet chocolate, and butter, stirring occasionally, and remove top of double boiler or bowl from heat.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat eggs with sugar until light and fluffy. Add espresso powder, vanilla, and chocolate mixture, beating until smooth.
In a small bowl whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt and add to chocolate mixture, beating until just combined. Stir in remaining semisweet chocolate and nuts until combined well.
Scoop out 1/2-cup measures of cookie dough, arranging them 3 inches apart on ungreased baking sheets. Bake cookies in batches in middle of oven 25 minutes, or until tops begin to crack (do not overbake). Cool cookies on a rack.

Passover Chocolate Torte with Raspberry Sauce 
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted kosher-for-Passover pareve (non-dairy) margarine
8 large egg yolks
1 cup plus 1/3 cup sugar
5 large egg whites
Paper doily
Fresh raspberries (optional)
Raspberry Sauce

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line bottom of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with parchment paper. Stir chocolate and margarine in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth. Remove from heat. Cool until lukewarm.
Using electric mixer, beat yolks and 3/4 cup sugar in large bowl until pale and very thick, about 4 minutes. Add chocolate mixture in 2 additions and beat until well blended. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in another large bowl until foamy. Gradually add 1/4 cup sugar and beat until whites are stiff but not dry. Fold 1/3 of whites into chocolate mixture. Fold in remaining whites in 2 additions. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake torte until crust forms on top and tester inserted into center comes out with some moist batter and some moist crumbs still attached, about 55 minutes (top may crack). Run small sharp knife around torte to loosen. Cool in pan on rack (torte will fall and crack). Remove pan sides. Invert torte onto platter. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and store at room temperature.)
Grind 1/3 cup sugar in blender until fine powder forms. Place doily atop torte. Sift ground sugar over doily; gently remove doily. Garnish torte with raspberries, if desired. Serve with Raspberry Sauce.

Triple-Chocolate Mousse Torte 
Vegetable oil
4 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
4 ounces milk chocolate, chopped
4 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), chopped
1/4 cup cold water
1 tablespoon unflavored gelatin
5 large egg yolks
1/4 cup sugar
1 cup half and half
1 3/4 cups chilled whipping cream

Brush 9-inch-diameter springform pan with oil. Place each chocolate in separate medium bowl. Combine 1/4 cup water and gelatin in small bowl. Let stand until gelatin softens, about 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, beat yolks and sugar in large bowl until mixture is pale yellow and very thick, about 5 minutes. Bring half and half just to simmer in heavy large saucepan. Gradually whisk hot half and half into beaten egg mixture. Return mixture to same saucepan. Stir over medium heat until custard thickens and leaves path on back of spoon when finger is drawn across, about 3 minutes (do not boil). Remove custard from heat. Add softened gelatin; stir until gelatin dissolves. Strain mixture into large glass measuring cup. Immediately pour 1/3 of hot custard over each. Stir each chocolate with separate spoon until melted and smooth. If mixture cools before chocolate is completely melted, set bowl over saucepan of simmering water and stir just until chocolate melts. Cool chocolate mixtures to room temperature, stirring occasionally.
Beat cream in large bowl until stiff peaks form. Divide whipped cream equally among bowls of chocolate, using about 1 1/3 cups cream for each. Fold whipped cream into chocolate in each bowl.
Pour bittersweet chocolate mixture into bottom of prepared pan. Smooth top with spatula. Freeze until firm, about 15 minutes. Pour milk chocolate mixture over bittersweet chocolate layer. Smooth top with spatula. Freeze until firm, about 15 minutes. Pour white chocolate mixture over milk chocolate mixture. Smooth top with spatula. Freeze until firm, about 15 minutes. (Torte can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover with plastic and store in refrigerate.)
Run sharp knife around sides of pan. Remove pan sides. Cut torte into wedges and serve.

Cherry-Almond Ice Cream Cake with Milk Chocolate Sauce 
2/3 cup whipping cream
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
10 ounces imported milk chocolate, chopped
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 pints cherry or cherry-vanilla ice cream, softened slightly
3 cups coarsely crushed amaretti cookies (about 9 ounces) or almond macaroons

Heat 2/3 cup whipping cream and 2 tablespoons butter in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat until butter melts. Remove from heat. Add chocolate; let stand 1 minute. Whisk until chocolate melts and sauce is smooth. Mix in vanilla extract. Cool sauce to room temperature, stirring occasionally, about 30 minutes.
Line bottom of 9 x 5 x 2 1/2-inch metal loaf pan with parchment paper, leaving overhang on long sides. Using back of spoon, spread 1 pint ice cream over bottom of prepared pan. Sprinkle evenly with 1 cup cookie crumbs. Spread another 1 pint ice cream over cookie crumbs. Freeze until ice cream is firm, about 20 minutes. Spread with 3/4 cup sauce; freeze 20 minutes. Spread with remaining 1 pint ice cream; sprinkle with 1 cup cookie crumbs, pressing crumbs into ice cream to adhere. Cover pan and freeze ice cream cake until very firm, at least 4 hours. (Can be prepared 5 days ahead. Keep cake frozen. Cover and refrigerate remaining sauce. Store remaining 1 cup crumbs airtight at room temperature.)
Stir remaining sauce in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until warmed through; pour into small pitcher or bowl. Cut around pan sides to loosen cake. Turn cake out onto platter. Peel off parchment. Sprinkle top of cake with remaining 1 cup crumbs.
Cut cake crosswise into slices. Serve immediately with warm sauce.

Original Girl Scout Cookies 
1 cup butter, or substitute
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons of milk
2 eggs
1 teaspoon of vanilla
2 cups of flour
2 teaspoons of baking powder

Cream butter and sugar together, add well beaten eggs, then milk, flavoring, flour and baking powder. Roll thin and bake in quick oven. Sprinkle sugar on top.

Old-Fashioned Chocolate Chip Cookies 
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup solid vegetable shortening, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1 12-ounce package semisweet chocolate chips

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Using electric mixer, beat both sugars, shortening and butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs and vanilla. Mix flour, baking soda and salt in large bowl. Add dry ingredients to butter mixture and mix until blended. Stir in chocolate chips.
Drop dough by heaping tablespoonfuls onto heavy large baking sheets, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake until golden brown, about 12 minutes. Transfer baking sheets to racks; cool 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks; cool completely.

Mexican Chocolate and Pepita Shortbread Stars 
3/4 cup unsalted shelled pepitas, toasted
4 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 large egg white, lightly whisked

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Grind pepitas in coffee grinder or blender until coarsely ground. Set aside. Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted and smooth. Transfer chocolate to large bowl. Cool slightly.
Add butter, 1/2 cup sugar, ground cinnamon and salt to melted chocolate. Using electric mixer, beat until well blended. Add flour and ground pepitas and stir until just blended.
Roll out dough on floured surface to -inch thickness. Using 3-inch star cookie cutter dipped into flour, cut out cookies. Transfer cookies to ungreased baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Reroll dough scraps; cut out additional cookies and place on baking sheets. Brush cookies with egg white; sprinkle with remaining 2 tablespoons sugar. Bake cookies until just firm to touch, about 18 minutes. Cool 5 minutes on baking sheets. Transfer to rack; cool.

Lemon Thyme Madeleines with Lemon Vodka Syrup 
2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon freshly grated lemon zest (from about 7 large lemons)
1 1/2 tablespoons finely chopped fresh thyme leaves
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
2 cups sugar
6 large eggs
1/4 cup water
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup lemon vodka
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
2 teaspoons finely chopped fresh thyme leaves

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. and generously butter and flour a madeleine pan (preferably non-stick), knocking out excess flour.
In a bowl whisk together flour, baking powder, salt, zest, and thyme.
In another bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter, lemon juice, and sugar until mixture is light and fluffy. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and add flour mixture, beating until just combined.
Spoon some of batter into prepared madeleine molds and with a spatula smooth surfaces, scraping back and forth over molds and returning excess batter to bowl. (This will eliminate any air pockets and ensure that molds are not overfilled.) Wipe excess batter from edges of pan.
Bake madeleines in middle of oven 20 to 25 minutes, or until edges are browned and tops are golden. Loosen edges and transfer madeleines to a rack set over a baking dish. Make more madeleines in pan, cleaned, buttered, and floured, with remaining batter in same manner.
While first batch of madeleines is baking, in a small saucepan bring syrup ingredients to a boil, stirring, and remove from heat.
Brush warm madeleines with some of hot syrup and repeat with remaining madeleines as they are baked, keeping syrup warm.

Plum Streusel Coffeecake 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1/2 cup walnuts
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, cut into pieces and softened
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
3/4 pound plums (4 to 5 medium), sliced
confectioners' sugar for sifting over cake

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and butter and flour a 9-inch round or square baking pan at least 2 inches deep.
In a food processor pulse together streusel ingredients until combined well and crumbly.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat butter with sugar until light and fluffy and add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and vanilla. Sift in flour with baking powder and salt and beat until just combined.
Spread cake batter in pan, smoothing top, and arrange plum slices over it in slightly overlapping concentric circles. Sprinkle streusel over plum slices and bake cake in middle of oven 1 hour, or until a tester comes out clean. Coffeecake may be made 1 week ahead: Cool cake completely in pan on a rack and freeze, wrapped well in plastic wrap and foil. Reheat cake, unwrapped but not thawed, in a preheated 350 degrees F. oven until heated through, 35 to 40 minutes. Cool cake slightly on a rack and sift confectioners' sugar over it. Serve coffeecake warm or at room temperature.

Cottage Cheese Rugelach with Walnuts 
2/3 cup small-curd cottage cheese
2/3 cup plus 3 tablespoons stick margarine, room temperature
1 1/3 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1/2 cup chopped walnuts (about 2 ounces)
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 egg
2 tablespoons milk

Mix cheese and 2/3 cup margarine in medium bowl. Stir in flour. Knead in bowl until dough is smooth, about 1 minute. Divide dough into 2 balls. Flatten into disks. Wrap each in plastic; freeze until firm enough to roll, about 10 minutes.
Meanwhile, combine brown sugar, walnuts, cinnamon, vanilla and 3 tablespoons margarine in processor. Blend until almost smooth paste forms.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Roll out 1 dough disk on lightly floured surface to 10-inch round. Spread half of brown sugar mixture evenly over. Cut round into 16 wedges. Starting at wide ends, roll up wedges. Bend ends in, forming crescents. Place on ungreased heavy baking sheet. Repeat rolling, filling and shaping with remaining dough disk.
Beat egg and milk to blend in small bowl. Brush glaze over crescents. Bake until cooked through and light brown, about 25 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Stained-Glass Lemon Cookies 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
1 large egg yolk
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
6 ounces (about) red and/or green hard candies
Additional sugar

Using electric mixer, beat butter and 3/4 cup sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in egg yolk, lemon peel and vanilla extract. Add all purpose flour and salt and beat until mixture begins to clump together. Divide dough into 3 equal pieces. Flatten each piece into disk; wrap each in plastic and refrigerate 2 hours. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Soften dough slightly at room temperature before rolling out.)
Finely grind red and/or green hard candies separately in processor. Transfer each color of candy to separate small bowl; cover candies and set aside.
Position 1 rack in center and 1 rack in top third of oven and preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Roll out 1 dough disk on lightly floured surface to 1/4-inch thickness. Using 2 1/2- to 2 3/4-inch-diameter cookie cutter or biscuit cutter, cut out cookies. Using small (about 1 inch in diameter) cookie cutter, make cutouts in center of each cookie.
Transfer cookies to prepared baking sheets. Spoon ground hard candies into cookie cutouts, filling cutouts completely to same thickness as cookies. Sprinkle cookies lightly with additional sugar. Repeat with remaining dough disks, ground hard candies and additional sugar. Reroll dough scraps and cut out additional cookies. Place on baking sheets; fill with hard candies and sprinkle with additional sugar.
Bake cookies until firm and light golden and ground candies look translucent, about 8 minutes. Cool cookies completely on baking sheets. (Can be prepared ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature up to 1 week or freeze up to 1 month.)

Peppermint Fudge Cake 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 2/3 cups boiling water
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 large eggs
10 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker’s), chopped
1 3/4 cups chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup sour cream
24 red-and-white-striped hard peppermint candies, crushed (about 2/3 cup)
2 cups whipping cream
16 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Whisk flour, baking soda and salt in small bowl to blend. Place cocoa in medium bowl; whisk in 1 2/3 cups boiling water. Cool cocoa mixture to room temperature, whisking occasionally.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in sugar, then vanilla. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. At low speed, beat in flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with cocoa mixture in 2 additions. Divide batter equally among prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans 10 minutes. Cut around cakes to loosen; turn out onto racks. Cool completely.
Combine white chocolate, 3/4 cup whipping cream and sour cream in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over low heat just until chocolate is melted and smooth. Transfer white chocolate mixture to large bowl; cool to barely lukewarm, whisking occasionally, about 20 minutes. Mix in candies. Beat remaining 1 cup cream in medium bowl to soft peaks. Fold cream into barely lukewarm white chocolate mixture in 4 additions. Chill mousse until beginning to set, about 2 hours. Place 1 cake layer on 8-inch cardboard round. Spread half of mousse over top of cake. Top with second cake layer, remaining mousse and third cake layer. Chill assembled cake until mousse is cold and set, about 3 hours.
Bring cream to simmer in heavy large saucepan. Remove from heat. Add bittersweet chocolate; whisk until melted and smooth. Cool ganache until thick but still pourable, about 45 minutes.
Place cake on rack set over baking sheet. Pour ganache over cake, spreading with metal spatula to cover sides evenly. Chill cake until ganache sets, at least 30 minutes and up to 1 day.

Ginger Almond Biscotti 
3/4 cup whole almonds with skins
1/2 cup crystallized ginger
1 cup unbleached all-purpose flour
1/2 cup sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 large egg
1 large egg white
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Special equipment: an 11- by 4-inch loaf pan (see note, above)

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Butter loaf pan and line bottom with wax paper.
In a shallow baking pan toast almonds in middle of oven until a shade darker, about 10 minutes. Cool nuts and very coarsely chop. Finely chop crystallized ginger. Into a bowl sift together flour, sugar, ground ginger, salt, and baking soda. In another bowl with an electric mixer beat together whole egg, egg white, and vanilla. Stir in flour mixture and beat until combined well. Stir in almonds and crystallized ginger.
Press dough into loaf pan and bake in middle of oven until pale golden, about 45 minutes. Turn loaf out onto a rack and cool 10 minutes. On a cutting board with a serrated knife cut loaf crosswise into 1/8-inch-thick slices. Arrange biscotti on a baking sheet and bake in middle of oven until crisp, about 15 minutes. Cool biscotti on rack. Biscotti keep in an airtight container at cool room temperature 2 weeks.

Maple Shortbread 
1 stick cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
2 tablespoons packed dark brown sugar
1/4 cup maple sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons unbleached all-purpose flour
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and put a 9-inch tart pan with a removable bottom in freezer to chill.
Blend butter, brown sugar, 2 tablespoons maple sugar, and vanilla in a food processor just until smooth, about 30 seconds. Sift flour, cornstarch, and salt over butter mixture and pulse just until clumps form (about 8 pulses).
Press evenly into chilled pan, then sprinkle evenly with remaining 2 tablespoons maple sugar. Prick all over with a fork and freeze 5 minutes.
Bake in middle of oven until edges are golden, 25 to 30 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 5 minutes and, while still warm, cut into 8 wedges. Cool completely before removing from pan.

Danish Apple Cake 
1 kilogram (2 pounds) Granny Smith apples
90 grams (3 ounces) butter
sugar to taste
2 cups (4 ounces) fresh breadcrumbs
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 cup (4 fluid ounces) cream, whipped
red currant jelly (or jam)

Peel, core and thinly slice the apples. Put into a stainless steel or enamel pan with a little water. Cover and cook gently until soft, then purée. Stir in 1 tablespoon of butter and enough sugar to taste. Melt remaining butter in a frying pan, add breadcrumbs and sugar and stir until golden. Allow to cool.
Just before serving, arrange alternate layers of apple purée and crumbs in a serving dish or individual bowls. Finish with a sprinkling of crumbs, decorate with whipped cream and red currant jelly.

Mrs. Marshall's Cheesecake 
1 1/2 cups crushed zwieback toasts
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon
8 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2 (8-oz) packages cream cheese, softened
4 large eggs, separated
1 cup sugar
1 cup heavy cream
1 tablespoon all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and butter a 10-inch springform pan.
Stir together crust ingredients. Reserve 1/4 cup for topping and press remainder onto bottom and 1 1/2 inches up side of springform pan.
Beat cream cheese with a wooden spoon in a large bowl until smooth and creamy and add yolks 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in sugar, cream, flour, and vanilla. Beat whites with an eggbeater in another large bowl until they just hold stiff peaks and fold into cream-cheese mixture gently but thoroughly. Spoon filling into crust, smoothing top, and sprinkle evenly with reserved crumb mixture. Put springform pan in a shallow baking pan and bake cake on lowest rack of oven 1 hour. Turn oven off and open oven door 5 to 6 inches. Cool in oven 1 hour. Chill, covered, at least 3 hours. Remove side of pan and let cheesecake stand at room temperature 30 minutes before serving.

Warm Chocolate Cake with Whipped Cream 
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, diced
3 large eggs
3 large egg yolks
6 tablespoons sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons all purpose flour
Whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter six 3/4-cup soufflé dishes or custard cups. Stir chocolate and butter in heavy medium saucepan over medium-low heat until melted and smooth; cool to lukewarm. Using electric mixer, beat eggs, egg yolks, sugar and salt in large bowl at high speed until pale yellow and thick, about 5 minutes. Fold cooled chocolate into egg mixture. Sift flour over; fold until well incorporated. Divide batter equally among prepared dishes. Transfer to baking sheet.
Bake until set at edges but still soft in center, about 18 minutes. Serve warm with whipped cream.

Chocolate-Amaretto Layer Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 18.25-ounce package devil's food cake mix
1 1/3 cups water
3 large eggs
1/2 cup vegetable oil
12 tablespoons amaretto liqueur
3/4 teaspoon almond extract
3 cups semisweet chocolate chips (about 18 ounces)
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup whipping cream
2/3 cup sour cream
1 cup powdered sugar
1 cup slivered almonds, toasted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Combine cake mix, 1 1/3 cups water, eggs, oil, 3 tablespoons amaretto, and 1/2 teaspoon almond extract in large bowl; whisk until well blended. Mix in 1 cup chocolate chips. Divide batter among prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Cool cakes in pans 10 minutes. Run knife around pan sides. Turn cakes out onto racks; cool completely. Brush each cake layer with 2 tablespoons amaretto.
Combine butter and cream in medium saucepan. Stir over medium-low heat until butter melts and mixture comes to simmer. Remove from heat. Add remaining 2 cups chocolate chips and whisk until melted. Mix in remaining 3 tablespoons amaretto. Cool until barely lukewarm, about 5 minutes. Whisk in sour cream and remaining 1/4 teaspoon almond extract, then powdered sugar. Refrigerate frosting just until thick enough to spread, whisking occasionally, about 10 minutes.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 1/3 cup frosting over. Top with second cake layer. Spread 1/3 cup frosting over. Top with third cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Press nuts around bottom 2 inches of cake. Chill 2 hours. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome; keep chilled.)

World's Easiest Chocolate Cake (Mud Cake) 
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
3 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate, chopped
1 1/2 sticks unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 1/2 cups strong brewed coffee
5 tablespoons bourbon (preferably 80 proof)
2 large eggs, lightly beaten
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 3/4 cups sugar
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
Special equipment: 2 (7- or 8-inch) springform pans
Accompaniment: sweetened whipped cream and fresh berries

Preheat oven to 275 degrees F. Butter springform pans and line bottom of each with a round of wax paper. Butter paper and dust pans with flour, knocking out excess. Wrap bottom and 1 inch up side on outside of each springform pan with foil (to catch drips).
Melt chocolates and butter with coffee in a 4-quart saucepan over moderately low heat, stirring constantly until smooth. Remove from heat and cool 10 minutes. Beat in bourbon, eggs, and vanilla. Sift in flour, sugar, baking soda, and salt and stir until batter is smooth (batter will be thin).
Divide batter between springform pans (about 3 cups batter in each). Bake cakes in middle of oven 1 to 1 1/4 hours, or until a tester inserted in centers comes out with crumbs adhering. Remove from oven and cool in pans on racks 20 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge of each pan, then remove sides. When cool, remove pan bottoms and wax paper.

Gingerbread Cake 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup vegetable shortening
1/2 cup sugar
1 large egg, beaten
1 cup mild molasses mixed with 1 cup hot water
Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Sift together flour, baking soda, spices, and salt.
Beat together shortening, sugar, and egg in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until creamy, about 2 minutes. In 3 batches, alternately beat in flour mixture and molasses mixture at low speed until smooth. Pour batter into a greased 9- by 2-inch square metal baking pan and smooth top.
Bake cake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, 45 to 55 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack.

Semolina Walnut Cake with Sour Cherry Compote 
1/2 cup semolina flour
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1 1/3 cups walnuts (4 oz), chopped
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2/3 cup sugar
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh orange zest
4 large eggs
2/3 cup water
1/2 cup sugar
2 tablespoons fresh orange juice
1 tablespoon honey
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
Accompaniment:sour cherry compote

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Pulse flours, 1 cup walnuts, and salt in a food processor until nuts are finely chopped.
Beat together butter, sugar, and zest in a large bowl with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Stir in nut flour and spread batter evenly in a buttered 8-inch square metal pan. Sprinkle evenly with remaining 1/3 cup walnuts.
Bake in middle of oven until golden and a tester comes out clean, 30 to 35 minutes. Transfer pan to a rack. Make syrup while cake bakes:
Simmer all syrup ingredients in a 1-quart saucepan, stirring until sugar is dissolved, 10 to 15 minutes, or until slightly thickened. Finish cake:
Evenly brush warm syrup over hot cake and cool completely in pan on rack. Cut into diamonds.

Spiced Pumpkin Cheesecake 
9 whole graham crackers (about 4 ounces), broken
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 large eggs
1 15-ounce can pure pumpkin
1 cup whipping cream
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Wrap double layer of heavy-duty foil around outside of 10-inch-diameter springform pan. Combine graham crackers, sugar, and cinnamon in processor. Blend until graham crackers are very finely ground. Drizzle butter over. Using on/off turns, blend until crumbs begin to stick together. Press crumbs onto bottom (not sides) of springform pan. Bake until crust is slightly golden, about 10 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool while preparing filling. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth and fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Add pumpkin and remaining 7 ingredients. Beat just until blended. Pour filling into prepared crust. Place springform pan in large roasting pan. Add enough water to come halfway up sides of springform pan.
Bake cheesecake until slightly puffed and softly set and top is golden, about 1 1/2 hours. Transfer springform pan to rack and cool. Cover and refrigerate cake overnight.
Using knife, cut around sides of pan to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Cut cheesecake into wedges and serve.

Shortbread Rings (Gh'raybeh) 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup confectioners sugar
1 stick unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup vegetable shortening
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon rose water, or to taste
1/2 teaspoon orange-flower water, or to taste
34 whole blanched almonds or shelled natural pistachios (1/4 cup)

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F.
Beat together flour, sugar, butter, shortening, cardamom, rose water, and orange-flower water in a bowl with an electric mixer on low speed until a smooth dough forms.
Roll dough into walnut-size balls, then roll each ball into a 5-inch rope. Form each rope into a 2-inch circle, overlapping ends slightly. Press a nut into each cookie at overlap.
Arrange cookies, 1 inch apart, on 2 ungreased baking sheets and bake in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until dry to the touch but still white, 20 to 22 minutes total. Transfer cookies to a rack to cool.

Gingerbread with Cider Sauce 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups cake flour
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 tablespoon ground ginger
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup robust-flavored (dark) molasses
1/2 cup unsweetened applesauce
6 tablespoons vegetable oil
1 large egg
1/2 cup boiling water
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons cornstarch
2 cups unsweetened apple cider
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
2 tablespoons minced crystallized ginger
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 10-inch-diameter Bundt pan (12-cup capacity) with vegetable oil spray. Whisk flour, sugar, ginger, baking soda and salt in medium bowl to blend. Whisk molasses, applesauce, oil and egg in large bowl to blend. Add dry ingredients and stir until well blended. Whisk in 1/2 cup boiling water. Pour batter into prepared pan (batter will fill only half of pan).
Bake until cake begins to pull away from sides of pan and tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool in pan 30 minutes. Invert cake onto platter and cool to lukewarm, at least 15 minutes.
Whisk sugar and cornstarch in heavy small saucepan to blend. Gradually whisk in cider. Whisk over medium heat until sauce boils and thickens, about 3 minutes. Remove from heat. Whisk in lemon juice and ginger.
Dust cake with powdered sugar. Cut into 12 wedges. Serve warm or at room temperature with sauce.

Hazelnut Meringue Kisses 
3 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon instant espresso powder
1/2 teaspoon unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
3/4 cup hazelnuts (about 3 1/2 ounces), toasted lightly and skinned and ground fine
42 whole hazelnuts,toasted lightly and skinned
6 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped

Preheat oven to 225 degrees F. and line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper. Fit a large pastry bag with a 1/2-inch plain tip.
In a bowl with am electric mixer beat whites with cream of tartar and salt until they just hold soft peaks. Add sugar in a stream and beat in vanilla and espresso and cocoa powders, beating until meringue holds stiff, glossy peaks.
Working quickly, fold ground hazelnuts into meringue gently but thoroughly and fill pastry bag with meringue. Pipe 42 dots (each about 1/2 teaspoon) of meringue onto parchment 1/2 inch apart and top each dot with a whole hazelnut (meringue dots will anchor nuts). Pipe meringue over hazelnuts, encasing them, to form cookies about 1 inch wide and 1 3/4 inches high.
Bake cookies in middle and lower third of oven, switching positions of baking sheets halfway through baking, 1 hour and 15 minutes, or until meringue os form on the outside and pale golden (cookies will fall during baking). Remove parchment with cookies from baking sheets and cool on racks (cookies will continue to crisp as they cool). Carefully peel cookies off parchment.
In a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water melt chocolate, stirring until smooth, and remove from het. Dip top half of each cookie in melted chocolate, transferring cookies, chocolate sides up, to a wax-paper-lined tray. Chill cookies until chocolate is hardened, about 15 minutes. Cookies keep, arranged in layers between sheets of wax paper in an airtight container and chilled, 5 days.

Chocolate-Covered Coconut Macaroons 
3 cups (lightly packed) sweetened shredded coconut
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup egg whites (about 6 large)
1 3/4 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
9 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
6 tablespoons heavy whipping cream

Mix first 3 ingredients in heavy large saucepan. Cook over medium heat until mixture appears somewhat pasty, stirring constantly, about 12 minutes. Remove from heat. Mix in 1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract and 1/4 teaspoon almond extract. Spread out coconut mixture on large baking sheet. Refrigerate until cold, about 45 minutes.
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Line another baking sheet with parchment. Press 1/4 cup coconut mixture into pyramid shape (about 1 1/2 inches high). Place on prepared sheet. Repeat with remaining coconut mixture. Bake cookies until golden, about 30 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool.
Set cookies on rack over rimmed baking sheet. Stir chocolate and cream in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat until melted and smooth. Remove from heat. Mix in remaining 1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract. Spoon glaze over cookies, covering almost completely and allowing chocolate to drip down sides. Refrigerate until glaze sets, at least 2 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Transfer cookies to airtight container and keep refrigerated.)

Lemon Layer Cake with Lemon Curd and Mascarpone 
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup fresh lemon juice
3 large eggs
3 large egg yolks
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
6 large eggs, separated
14 tablespoons sugar
1 3/4 cups sifted cake flour (sifted, then measured)
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup boiling water
1/4 cup fresh lemon juice
2 cups chilled heavy whipping cream
3/4 cup sugar
3 8-ounce containers chilled mascarpone cheese*

Whisk first 4 ingredients in medium metal bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water (do not allow bottom of bowl to touch water). Whisk constantly until thickened and instant-read thermometer inserted into mixture registers 160 degrees F, about 10 minutes. Remove bowl from over water. Add butter; whisk until melted. Transfer 1 cup curd to small bowl for spreading on cake layers. Reserve remaining curd for filling. Press plastic wrap directly onto surface of both curds. Chill overnight. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Keep chilled.)
Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Line bottom of two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides with parchment paper (do not grease pans or parchment). Using electric mixer, beat egg yolks and 7 tablespoons sugar in large bowl until mixture is very thick and slowly dissolving ribbons form when beaters are lifted, about 4 minutes. Using clean dry beaters, beat whites in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Add remaining 7 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating until stiff and glossy. Fold half of whites into yolk mixture, then sift half of flour and 1/4 teaspoon salt over and gently fold in until incorporated. Fold in remaining whites, then sift remaining flour over and fold in just until combined, being careful not to deflate batter.
Divide batter between pans; smooth tops. Bake until tester inserted into center of cakes comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Cool in pans on racks.
Run knife around edge of pans to loosen cakes. Invert cakes onto 9-inch-diameter cardboard rounds, tapping on work surface if necessary to release cakes. Cut each cake horizontally in half (layers will be thin). Peel off parchment.
Place sugar in small metal bowl. Add 1/2 cup boiling water; stir to dissolve sugar. Stir in lemon juice.
Beat whipping cream and sugar in large bowl until peaks form. Add mascarpone to lemon curd in medium bowl; whisk until blended. Fold whipped cream into lemon-mascarpone mixture.
Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on platter. Brush with 1/4 of syrup. Spread 1/4 cup lemon curd over, then 1 cup lemon-mascarpone filling. Top with second cake layer; brush with 1/4 of syrup and spread with 1/4 cup lemon curd and 1 cup lemon-mascarpone filling. Repeat with third cake layer, syrup, lemon curd, and filling. Top with fourth cake layer. Brush with remaining syrup, then spread remaining lemon curd over. Spoon 2 cups lemon-mascarpone filling into pastry bag fitted with 1/4-inch star tip (to be used for rosettes). Spread remaining lemon-mascarpone filling as a frosting over sides of cake. Pipe small rosettes of frosting over top of cake, covering completely. Cover cake with cake dome; refrigerate at least 6 hours and up to 1 day.
*Italian cream cheese available at Italian markets and many supermarkets.

Cream Cheese Turtle Cake 
1 cup sliced almonds, lightly toasted
1 cup chopped pecans, lightly toasted
1 18.25-ounce box German chocolate cake mix
1 1/4 cups water
1/3 cup vegetable oil
3 large eggs
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, cut into pieces, room temperature
1 3/4 cups powdered sugar
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
5 tablespoons whole milk
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
3/4 cup semisweet chocolate chips
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup purchased caramel-flavored topping or dulce de leche topping

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13x9x2-inch metal cake pan. Sprinkle 1/2 cup almonds and 1/2 cup pecans over bottom of pan. Combine cake mix, 1 1/4 cups water, oil, and eggs in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat at low speed until mixture is moistened, about 30 seconds. Beat at medium speed 2 minutes. Pour batter into pan.
Melt butter in medium saucepan over medium-low heat. Gradually stir in powdered sugar (mixture will form clumps); stir in cream cheese. Whisk until smooth, about 1 minute. Pour cream cheese mixture in large ribbons atop cake batter in pan. Using knife, swirl mixture into batter (do not overmix).
Bake cake until tester inserted into center (in cake part only) comes out clean, about 50 minutes (bottom of cake will be very moist). Cool cake in pan on rack. Sprinkle remaining 1/2 cup almonds and 1/2 cup pecans over cake.
Mix sugar and cocoa in medium bowl. Bring milk and butter to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Reduce heat to medium-low; add powdered sugar mixture and whisk until melted. Add chocolate chips and whisk until smooth. Mix in vanilla.
Drizzle warm icing over cake. Let stand until set, about 2 hours. Drizzle caramel topping over. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; store at room temperature.)

Upside-Down Pear Cardamom Cake 
4 firm-ripe Forelle or small Bosc pears
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 teaspoon vanilla
1 large egg
3/4 cup whole milk
Accompaniment: vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Peel pears, then halve lengthwise and core. Spread sugar on a plate, then press cut sides of pear halves into sugar to coat, reserving remaining sugar.
Melt butter in a well-seasoned 10-inch cast-iron skillet over moderate heat until foam subsides. Reduce heat to low and arrange pears, cut sides down, decoratively in skillet. Sprinkle reserved sugar all around pears. Cook pears over moderately low heat until sugar begins to caramelize, about 15 minutes, and remove skillet from heat.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, cardamom, and salt. Beat together butter and sugar in a bowl with an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Add vanilla and egg and beat well. Add flour mixture and milk alternately in 3 batches, mixing at low speed after each addition until just combined.
Spoon batter over pears in skillet, gently spreading evenly and being careful not to disturb pears (batter will not cover tops of all pears). Bake in middle of oven until golden brown and a tester comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes.
Cool cake in skillet on a rack 5 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge and invert a plate over skillet. Invert cake onto plate (wearing oven mitts), keeping plate and skillet firmly pressed together. Replace any fruit stuck to bottom of skillet if necessary.
Serve cake warm or at room temperature.

Spice Cookies 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2/3 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 tablespoons hot water
1 cup confectioners' sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice

In the bowl of an electric mixer cream the butter with the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, into the bowl sift together the cinnamon, the ginger, the cardamom, the cloves, the salt, and the flour, and beat the mixture until it is just combined. In a small bowl stir together the baking soda and the water, beat the mixture into the dough, and chill the dough, wrapped in plastic wrap, for at least 30 minutes or overnight.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Halve the dough, roll out one of the halves 1/8 inch thick between sheets of plastic wrap, and cut out cookies with 2-inch decorative cutters (such as stars or gingerbread men). Roll out the remaining dough and cut out more cookies in the same manner. Bake the cookies in batches on buttered baking sheets in the middle of the oven for 8 minutes, transfer them to racks, and let them cool completely. The cookies may be made 1 month in advance and kept frozen in airtight containers.
In a small bowl whisk together the confectioners' sugar and the lemon juice and transfer the icing to a resealable plastic bag. Cut a small opening in a bottom corner of the bag, pipe the icing onto the cookies, and let it dry completely.

Oatmeal Coconut Squares with Chocolate Chips 
1 cup old-fashioned rolled oats
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 cup packed dark brown sugar
1/2 cup chocolate chips (milk or semisweet)
1/2 cup sweetened flaked coconut
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Line a 9-inch square metal baking pan with a 12- to 14-inch-long sheet of foil, letting excess hang over sides, and butter foil in pan.
Toss together oats, flour, brown sugar, chips, coconut, baking powder, and salt in a large bowl. Beat together butter, egg, and vanilla with a fork in another bowl, then stir into oat mixture until incorporated. Spoon batter into baking pan, patting evenly.
Bake in middle of oven until set, about 25 minutes. Remove from pan by lifting ends of foil. Cool on a rack, then cut into 16 squares.

Lemon Pistachio Biscotti 
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
6 ounces (about 1 1/2 cups) unsalted pistachios
3 large eggs
Finely grated zest of 2 medium lemons
3 tablespoons strained lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cookie sheets or jelly roll pans covered with parchment or foil

1. Set a rack in the middle of the oven and preheat to 350 degrees .
2. In a medium bowl, combine the flour, sugar, and baking powder; stir well to mix. Stir in the pistachios.
3. In another bowl, whisk the eggs with the lemon zest, juice, and vanilla. Use a rubber spatula to stir the egg mixture intot he dry ingredients. Continue to stir until a stiff dough forms.
4. Scrape the dough onto a lightly floured work surface and divide it in half. Roll each half under th epalms of your hands into a cylinder a little shorter than your baking sheet. Place the logs of dough on the baking sheet, making sure they are not too close to each other or to the sides of the pan. With the palm of your hand, press down gently to flatten the logs.
5. Bake for about 25 to 30 minutes, or until the logs are well risen and have spread to about double their size. The logs are done when, pressed with a fingertip, they feel firm. Place the pan on a rack to cool the logs completely.
6. Reset the racks in the upper and lower thirds of the oven. Reduce the oven temperature to 300 degrees F. Place each of the cooled logs on a cutting board and cut it into 1/3-inch thick diagonal slices. Arrange the biscotti on the prepared pans, cut side down. It isn't necessary to leave space between them. Bake the biscotti for about 15 or 20 minutes or until they are dry and lightly golden. Cool on the pan on a rack.
7. Store the cooled biscotti between sheets of parchment or wax paper in a tin or plastic container with a tight-fitting cover.

No-Bake Chocolate Cookies 
2 cups sugar
1/2 cup whole milk
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
4 tablespoons unsalted butter
3 cups rolled oats
1 cup flaked coconut
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup mini marshmallows

Line a cookie sheet with waxed paper and set aside.
In a large, heavy-bottomed saucepan, combine the sugar, milk, cocoa, and butter and stir to combine. Cook over high heat and bring to a boil. Allow to boil for 1 1/2 minutes, remove from heat, then add the oats, coconut, vanilla, and marshmallows and stir well to combine. Drop by tablespoonfuls onto the prepared cookie sheet and chill.

Three Berry Butter Cake 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter
1/4 cup heavy cream
3 large eggs at room temperature
1 1/4 cups granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh lemon zest
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 1/2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
6 cups mixed berries (1 3/4 ponds) such as raspberries, blackberries, and blueberries
2 tablespoons confectioners sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a 13- by 9- by 2-inch metal baking pan, then line bottom with wax paper and grease paper.
Heat butter with cream in a small saucepan over low heat until melted, then cool.
Beat eggs, granulated sugar, and salt with an electric mixer on high speed until mixture is thick, pale, and forms a ribbon when beaters are lifted, about 5 minutes with a standing mixer or about 12 minutes with a handheld. Add zest, baking powder, and vanilla and mix on low speed until blended.
Add 1 1/4 cups flour and half of butter mixture and mix on low speed until blended. Mix in remaining butter and 1 1/4 cups flour in same manner. Increase speed to medium and beat 1 minute with a standing mixer or 2 minutes with a handheld, or until batter is thick and sticky. Add berries and carefully fold in with a rubber spatula until barely combined. (Raspberries will begin to fall apart, and batter will look slightly pink.) Spoon batter into baking pan, gently smoothing top. Bake in middle of oven until springy to the touch and a tester inserted into center comes out clean, 45 to 50 minutes. Cool completely in pan on a rack.
Run a knife around edge of cake, then invert rack over cake and flip cake onto it. Remove wax paper and reinvert onto a platter.
Just before serving, dust with confectioners sugar.

Spiced Pumpkin Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting and Chocolate Leaves 
6 ounces imported milk chocolate (such as Lindt), finely chopped, plus one 1-inch piece of milk chocolate
24 fresh lemon or camellia leaves, wiped clean with moist paper towels, patted dry
6 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), finely chopped, plus one 1-inch piece of white chocolate
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped, plus one 1-inch piece of bittersweet chocolate
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 cup dried currants
1/2 cup chopped walnuts
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
2 large eggs
1/2 cup whole milk
1 cup canned solid pack pumpkin
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
3 tablespoons robust-flavored (dark) molasses
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 teaspoons grated orange peel
2 8-ounce packages chilled cream cheese
1/3 cup powdered sugar

Line small baking sheet (or large plate) with foil. Add enough hot water (125 degrees F. to 130 degrees F.) to 9-inch-diameter cake pan to measure depth of 1 inch. Place 6 ounces finely chopped milk chocolate in 3- to 4-cup glass bowl; place bowl in hot water. Let stand just until outer edges of chocolate melt. Stir until chocolate is partially melted (some soft pieces will remain). Transfer bowl to work surface and stir until chocolate is melted and smooth and instant-read thermometer registers no higher than 88 degrees F. (barely lukewarm). If melted chocolate is warmer than 88 degrees F., add 1-inch piece of milk chocolate and stir until temperature falls below 88 degrees F. Remove any remaining piece of chocolate.
Hold 1 leaf with heavily veined side up. Using pastry brush, carefully coat upper surface completely with chocolate. Using fingertips, wipe away any chocolate overflow from edges of leaf. Place leaf, chocolate side up, on prepared baking sheet. Repeat with 7 more leaves. Refrigerate coated leaves until chocolate is cold and set, about 10 minutes.
Carefully peel lemon leaves off chocolate leaves; return chocolate leaves to baking sheet and refrigerate.
Line another small baking sheet (or large plate) with foil. Melt 6 ounces white chocolate and make 8 white chocolate leaves, following technique and temperature guidelines for milk chocolate leaves.
Line another small baking sheet (or large plate) with foil. Melt 6 ounces bittersweet chocolate and make 8 bittersweet chocolate leaves, following technique for milk chocolate leaves. (Chocolate leaves can be prepared 2 days ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line bottoms of two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides with waxed paper. Spray sides of pans with nonstick spray. Sift flour, baking powder, cinnamon, nutmeg, baking soda, salt and cloves into medium bowl; sift again. Place currants in small bowl. Add 1 tablespoon flour mixture and toss to coat; mix in walnuts.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in sugar. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with milk in 2 additions. Beat in pumpkin. Fold in currant-walnut mixture. Divide batter equally between prepared pans (batter will be about 3/4 inch deep).
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks; peel off waxed paper. Cool layers completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap in foil and store at room temperature.)
Beat butter, brown sugar, molasses, vanilla and orange peel in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in cream cheese. Sift powdered sugar over; beat to blend. (Frosted cake can be prepared up to 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let cake stand at room temperature 2 hours before continuing.)
Place 1 cake layer, bottom side up, on platter. Spread with 1 1/2 cups frosting. Top with second cake layer, bottom side down. Spread remaining frosting smoothly over top and sides of cake.
Arrange chocolate leaves decoratively on top and sides of cake. Serve immediately or let stand up to 2 hours.

Raspberry-Apricot Shortcakes 
2 pounds apricots (about 12), pitted, cut into 1/3-inch-thick wedges
1 cup sugar
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon water
1 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
1 1/4 cups chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup powdered sugar
10 warm Cinnamon Biscuits
2 1/2-pint baskets fresh raspberries

Place apricots in large bowl. Combine 1 cup sugar and 1 cup water in small saucepan. Bring to boil, stirring until sugar dissolves. Mix sugar syrup into apricots. Cool completely.
Place 1 tablespoon water in small cup. Sprinkle 1 teaspoon unflavored gelatin over. Let stand until gelatin softens, about 5 minutes. Set cup in 1-inch-deep simmering water in medium saucepan; stir until gelatin dissolves, about 3 minutes. Remove from heat. Using electric mixer, beat whipping cream and powdered sugar in large bowl just until mixture thickens. Gradually add warm gelatin mixture, beating until cream forms medium-firm peaks. (Apricots and whipped cream can be prepared 8 hours ahead. Cover separately and refrigerate.)
Cut biscuits horizontally in half. Place 1 biscuit bottom in each of 10 shallow bowls. Spoon apricots with some syrup over bottoms. Top with whipped cream, raspberries and biscuit tops. Drizzle remaining syrup from apricots around shortcakes and serve.

Oatmeal Cookie Sandwiches with Nectarine Ice Cream 
1 1/2 cups old-fashioned oats
3/4 cup all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/3 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/3 cup sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 1/2 pounds nectarines, pitted, cut into 1/4-inch cubes
1/4 cup sugar
1 pint vanilla ice cream, softened slightly

Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper.
Mix first 5 ingredients in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add both sugars; beat until well blended. Beat in egg and vanilla. Stir in dry ingredients. Using 2 tablespoons batter per cookie, drop 8 mounds onto each sheet, spacing mounds 3 inches apart. Flatten to 2-inch rounds.
Bake cookies 10 minutes. Reverse baking sheets and bake until cookies are golden and dry to touch, about 3 minutes longer. Let cool 2 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack. Cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Store airtight.)
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Spray large rimmed baking sheet with nonstick spray. Spread nectarines in single layer on sheet. Sprinkle with sugar; toss to coat. Bake nectarines 15 minutes. Stir well. Bake until fruit is tender and juices begin to thicken and caramelize, stirring every 5 minutes to prevent burning, about 20 minutes longer. Transfer fruit and juices to large bowl; mash coarsely; cool. Mix ice cream into fruit. Freeze until almost firm, about 45 minutes.
Place 8 cookies, flat side up, on work surface. Spread 1/3 cup ice cream over each. Top each with 1 cookie, flat side down, and press gently to adhere (reserve any remaining ice cream for another use). Wrap sandwiches in foil and freeze. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Keep frozen.)

Pecan Fingers (Puckle Warts) 
2 cups sifted all-purpose flour (sift before measuring)
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) butter, softened
1/4 cup honey
2 teaspoons vanilla
1 cup pecans (3 3/4 ounces), finely chopped
1 cup confectioners sugar, sifted

Sift together flour and salt.
Beat together butter, honey, and vanilla with an electric mixer until creamy. Mix in flour mixture at low speed just until blended, then stir in pecans. Form dough into a disk and chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, about 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F.
Roll 1 1/2-inch balls of dough into 2- by 1/2-inch logs.
Arrange cookies 1 inch apart on greased baking sheets.
Bake cookies in batches in middle of oven until golden, 30 to 35 minutes, then roll in confectioners sugar while still warm. Transfer to a rack and cool, then reroll in confectioners sugar.

Irish Cream Chocolate Mousse Cake 
4 large eggs
1/3 cup sugar
12 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup Irish cream liqueur

Whisk eggs and sugar in large metal bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water (do not allow bottom of bowl to touch water) and whisk constantly until candy thermometer registers 60 degrees F, about 5 minutes.
Remove bowl from over water. Using electric mixer, beat egg mixture until cool and very thick, about 10 minutes.
Place chocolate in top of another bowl over simmering water; stir until melted and smooth. Remove bowl from over water. Cool to lukewarm.
Combine cream and Irish cream liqueur in medium bowl; beat to stiff peaks. Pour lukewarm melted chocolate over egg mixture and fold together. Fold in cream mixture. Cover and chill until set, at least 4 hours or overnight.
6 large eggs
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons instant espresso powder or coffee powder
Pinch of salt
1 cup all purpose flour
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Line bottom with parchment paper. Using electric mixer, beat eggs, sugar, espresso powder and salt in large bowl until mixture thickens and slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are lifted, about 8 minutes. Sift 1/3 of flour over and gently fold into egg mixture. Repeat 2 more times (do not overmix or batter may deflate).
Pour batter into prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan on rack.
Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Release pan sides. Turn out cake. Remove pan bottom. Peel off parchment. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap cake in plastic and chill.)
2/3 cup sugar
5 tablespoons water
5 tablespoons Irish whiskey
Combine sugar and water in small saucepan. Stir over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and bring to boil. Remove from heat. Mix in whiskey. Cool. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature.)
Using serrated knife, cut cake horizontally into 3 layers. Place bottom cake layer on platter. Brush with 3 tablespoons syrup. Spread 2 cups mousse over. Top with second cake layer. Brush with 3 tablespoons syrup. Spread 2 cups mousse over. Top with third cake layer, cut side down. Brush with 3 tablespoons syrup. Spread remaining mousse over top and sides of cake. Refrigerate cake while preparing chocolate bands.
2 14 1/2 x 3-inch waxed paper strips
4 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon solid vegetable shortening
Line large basket sheet with foil and set aside. Place another large sheet of foil on work surface; top with waxed paper strips, spacing apart. Stir chopped semisweet chocolate and vegetable shortening in heavy, small saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth. Pour half of melted chocolate down center of each waxed paper strip.
Using metal icing spatula, spread chocolate to cover strips evenly and completely, allowing some chocolate to extend beyond edges of paper strips. Using fingertips, lift strips and place on clean foil-lined baking sheet. Refrigerate just until chocolate begins to set but is still very flexible, about 2 minutes.
Remove chocolate bands from refrigerator. Using fingertips, lift 1 band from foil. With chocolate side next to cake, place band around side of cake; press gently to adhere (band will be taller than cake). Repeat with second chocolate band, pressing onto uncovered side of cake so that ends of chocolate bands just meet (if ends overlap, use scissors to trim any excess paper and chocolate). Refrigerate until chocolate sets, about 5 minutes. Gently peel off paper. Refrigerate cake.
12 1-ounce squares semisweet baking chocolate
Powdered sugar
Line baking sheet with foil. Unwrap 1 square of chocolate. Place chocolate on its paper wrapper in microwave. Cook on High just until chocolate begins to soften slightly, about 1 minute (time will vary depending on power of microwave). Turn chocolate square onto 1 side and hold in hand. Working over foil-lined sheet, pull vegetable peeler along sides of chocolate, allowing chocolate curls to fall gently onto foil. Form as many curls as possible. Repeat process with remaining chocolate squares. Place curls decoratively atop cake, mounding slightly. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Refrigerate cake.) Sift powdered sugar over chocolate curls before serving cake.

Lemon-Blueberry Cake with White Chocolate Frosting 
3 1/3 cups cake flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups sugar
1/3 cup fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon (packed) grated lemon peel
4 large eggs
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons buttermilk
2 1/2 cups fresh blueberries
11 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker’s), finely chopped
12 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
Additional blueberries (optional)
Lemon slices (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides; line bottoms with rounds of parchment paper.
Sift first 4 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add sugar, beating until blended, scraping down sides of bowl occasionally. Beat in lemon juice and peel, then eggs 1 at a time. Continue to beat until well blended. Beat in dry ingredients in 4 additions alternately with buttermilk in 3 additions. Fold in berries. Transfer batter to pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks.
Stir white chocolate in top of double boiler set over barely simmering water until almost melted. Remove from over water and stir until smooth. Cool to lukewarm. Beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until blended. Beat in lemon juice, then cooled white chocolate.
Turn cakes out onto work surface. Peel off parchment. Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on platter. Spread with 1 cup frosting. Top with second cake layer, flat side down. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Garnish with additional blueberries and lemon slices, if desired. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; refrigerate. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.)

Shortbread 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup superfine granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 cup all-purpose flour
Optional: 1/2 cup chopped toasted nuts

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Blend together butter, sugar, vanilla, and salt in a bowl with a fork until combined well. Sift flour into butter mixture and blend with fork until mixture forms a soft dough.
Transfer dough to an ungreased large baking sheet and pat into a 9- by 4 1/2-inch rectangle. Crimp edges decoratively and prick dough all over with tines of a fork. Score dough crosswise with the back of a knife into 8 sections. If desired, sprinkle with chopped toasted nuts and press gently into dough with your fingertips.
Bake shortbread in middle of oven until edges are golden, about 15 minutes.
Cool shortbread on baking sheet on a rack 10 minutes, then cut into slices (while still warm) with a sharp knife. Transfer slices with a spatula to rack to cool completely.

Swiss Sandwich Cookies (spitzbuben) 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/4 cups confectioners sugar
1 tablespoon vanilla powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 1/2 sticks (1 1/4 cups) unsalted butter, softened
2 teaspoons powdered egg whites
2 tablespoons warm water
1/4 cup sanding or granulated sugar
1/2 cup seedless raspberry jam
1/2 cup apricot preserves, strained

Sift together flour, confectioners sugar, vanilla powder, and salt.
Heat butter with an electric mixer until creamy. Mix in flour mixture at low speed just until blended. Form dough into a disk and chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F.
Roll out dough slightly less than 1/4 inch thick on a lightly floured surface and cut out 1 1/2-inch rounds.
Arrange 1 inch apart on greased baking sheets. Reroll scraps once (cookies become tough if dough is worked too much). Whisk together powdered egg whites and water. Brush cookies with egg whites and sprinkle with sanding sugar.
Bake cookies in batches in middle of oven until pale golden, 10 to 15 minutes, then transfer to a rack to cool.
Sandwich jam and preserves between unsugared sides of cookies, filling half with raspberry and half with apricot.

Swedish Dream Cookies (drommar) 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 teaspoon crushed ammonium carbonate (also called baker’s ammonium)
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1 1/2 cups sweetened flaked coconut

Sift together flour and salt.
Beat together butter and sugar with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy. Beat in ammonium carbonate and almond extract until combined well. Mix in flour mixture at low speed just until blended, then stir in coconut. Form dough into a disk and chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F.
Roll dough into 1-inch balls and arrange 1 inch apart on greased baking sheets.
Bake cookies in batches in upper third of oven until pale golden around edges, 18 to 22 minutes. Transfer cookies to a rack to cool.

Winemaker's Grape Cake 
Equipment: One 9-inch (23-cm) springform pan
Butter and flour for preparing the cake pan
2 large eggs, at room temperature
2/3 cup (135 g) sugar
4 tablespoons (2 ounces; 60 g) unsalted butter, melted
1/4 cup (6 cl) extra-virgin olive oil
1/3 cup (8 cl) whole milk
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups (200 g) unbleached all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
A pinch of sea salt
Grated zest (yellow peel) of 1 lemon
Grated zest (orange peel) of 1 orange
10 ounces (300 g) small, fresh purple grapes (see above for varieties)
Confectioners’ sugar, for garnish

1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C; gas mark 4/5).
2. Generously butter and flour the springform pan, tapping out any excess flour. Set aside.
3. In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a whisk, beat the eggs and sugar until thick and lemon-colored, about 3 minutes. Add the butter, oil, milk, and vanilla extract, and mix until blended.
4. Sift the flour, baking powder, and salt into a large bowl. Add the lemon zest and orange zest, and toss to coat the zest with flour. Spoon the mixture into the bowl of batter and stir with a wooden spoon until thoroughly blended. Scrape down the sides of the bowl and mix once more. Set aside for 10 minutes to allow the flour to absorb the liquids.
5. Stir about 3/4 of the grapes into the batter. Spoon the batter into the prepared cake pan and smooth out the top with a spatula.
6. Place the pan in the center of the oven. Bake for 15 minutes, then sprinkle the top of the cake with remaining grapes. Bake until the top is a deep golden brown and the cake feels quite firm when pressed with a fingertip, about 40 minutes more, for a total baking time of 55 minutes. Remove to rack to cool. After 10 minutes, run a knife along the sides of the pan. Release and remove the side of the springform pan, leaving the cake on the pan base. Sprinkle with confectioners’ sugar just before serving. Serve at room temperature, cut into thin wedges.
Grape cake is an ideal match for _vin santo,_the rich, smooth, aromatic sweet wine prepared in small quantities on many Italian estates.
Over time, I have identified the mystery that discourages many shoppers from buying grapes: the inevitable hazy white film. Though one might understandably assume it’s due to a spray of pesticide, the film is in fact a natural substance produced by the grape. It acts as a protective covering to prevent moisture from penetrating the fruit. It also keeps the skin from cracking when the grape loses moisture. Even better, the film contains nothing toxic! You will find the same harmless film on plums.

Triple-Ginger Layer Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3 cups cake flour, sifted
1 cup finely chopped crystallized ginger
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons buttermilk
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2/3 cup powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup minced crystallized ginger

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray two 8-inch round cake pans with 2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Line bottoms with parchment. Mix flour, crystallized ginger, ground ginger, cinnamon, baking soda and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until well blended after each addition. Mix in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk in 3 additions each, scraping down sides of bowl. Beat just until batter is smooth. Divide batter between prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Run small knife around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely. Peel off parchment.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add brown sugar, powdered sugar, cinnamon, ground ginger and vanilla; beat until well blended. Mix in 1/4 cup crystallized ginger.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 1 cup frosting over. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Sprinkle remaining 1/4 cup crystallized ginger decoratively atop cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let stand 2 hours at room temperature before serving.)

Stilton Cheesecake with Rhubarb Compote 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 cup sugar
7 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes and softened
1/2 lb Stilton, rind discarded and cheese crumbled (1 cup)
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
3 large eggs
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla
1/2 cup Port
1/2 cup sugar
24 pink peppercorns, coarsely crushed
2 pounds trimmed rhubarb, cut into 1/2-inch cubes (6 cups)
3 tablespoons sugar for caramel topping (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Blend together flour and sugar with an electric mixer. Add butter and blend until mixture resembles coarse meal (it will not form a dough). Transfer to a buttered 24-centimeter springform pan and press evenly onto bottom. Bake in middle of oven until pale golden, about 30 minutes, then cool in pan on a rack.
Reduce temperature to 300 degrees F.
Beat together crumbled Stilton, cream cheese, and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer on low speed. Beat in flour and add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in sour cream and vanilla, then pour filling over cooled crust in pan.
Bake cheesecake in middle of oven until puffed and pale golden around edge, about 1‚ hours. Transfer cake in pan to rack and run a knife around edge of pan to loosen. Cool completely, about 2 hours. Chill, covered, until cold, at least 4 hours. Remove side of pan and transfer cake to a plate.
Boil Port, 1/2 cup sugar, and peppercorns in a 12-inch nonstick skillet, stirring until sugar is dissolved, until reduced to about 1/2 cup, 2 to 3 minutes. Add rhubarb and gently stir to coat. Simmer rhubarb, stirring gently once after 5 minutes, until just tender but not falling apart, about 10 minutes, and transfer to a bowl. Chill compote, covered, until cold, at least 4 hours.
Just before serving, sprinkle tablespoons sugar evenly over cheesecake and heat with a blowtorch, moving flame back and forth just over sugar until evenly melted and caramelized.

Strawberry Shortcakes with White Chocolate Mousse 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
3 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon sugar
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1/2 cup plus 1 tablespoon chilled buttermilk
3 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 1-pint baskets strawberries, hulled, quartered
1/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon Grand Marnier or other orange liqueur
White Chocolate Mousse

Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Line baking sheet with parchment paper. Blend flour, 3 tablespoons sugar, baking powder, baking soda and salt in processor. Add butter and process using on/off turns until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add 1/2 cup buttermilk and process just until moist clumps form. Blend in chopped chocolate using on/off turns.
Turn dough out onto lightly floured work surface. Dust lightly with flour. Gently press dough to 1/2-inch thickness. Using 3 1/4-inch cutter, cut out shortcakes. Gather dough scraps and press to 1/2-inch thickness; cut out additional shortcakes for a total of 6. Transfer shortcakes to prepared baking sheet. Brush shortcakes with remaining 1 tablespoon buttermilk. Sprinkle with 1 teaspoon sugar.
Bake shortcakes until golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool. (Can be prepared 8 hours ahead. Let stand at room temperature.)
Toss strawberries, sugar and liqueur in large bowl. Let stand at room temperature until juices form, tossing occasionally, about 1 hour.
Cut shortcakes horizontally in half. Place 1 shortcake bottom on each of 6 plates. Spoon 1/3 cup White Chocolate Mousse over each. Spoon some of strawberry topping over each. Cover each with shortcake top. Top each with spoonful of mousse, then more strawberry topping and serve.

Mixed-Berry and White Chocolate Buttercream Cake 
3 3/4 cups cake flour
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 tablespoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups lukewarm water
1 1/4 cups vegetable oil
15 large egg yolks
7 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
15 large egg whites
2 1/4 cups powdered sugar

Position 1 rack in center and 1 rack in lowest third of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 12-inch- diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Whisk flour, 1 1/2 cups sugar, baking powder and salt in very large (6- to 8-quart) bowl to blend well. Add 1 1/2 cups lukewarm water; using electric mixer, beat until smooth (batter will be thick). Beat in oil, then egg yolks and vanilla.
Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites and powdered sugar in large bowl until whites are very thick and billowy and form medium-firm peaks when beaters are lifted, about 12 minutes (do not underbeat). Fold whites into yolk mixture in 3 additions. Divide cake batter equally between prepared pans.
Place one pan on each rack in oven, staggering pans so that one is not directly above the other. Bake cakes 25 minutes. Reverse position of pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 10 minutes. Cool cakes in pans 10 minutes. Line 2 cooling racks with kitchen towels. Cut around cakes to loosen; turn out onto towels. Cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap in foil; store at room temperature.)
Makes about 8 cups.
8 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker’s), chopped
1/2 cup whipping cream
2 cups (4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup egg whites (about 8)
2 1/4 cups sugar
2 1/2 teaspoons grated orange peel
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Stir white chocolate and cream in heavy small saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth. Cool to room temperature. Using electric mixer, beat butter in medium bowl until fluffy; set aside.
Combine whites and sugar in large metal bowl. Set bowl over large saucepan of simmering water (do not let bottom of bowl touch water). Whisk until sugar dissolves and thermometer inserted into whites registers 160 degrees F, about 3 minutes. Remove bowl from over water. Using clean dry beaters, beat meringue until cool, stiff and shiny, about 10 minutes.
Beat butter, about 1/4 cup at a time, into meringue, blending well after each addition. If frosting looks curdled, place bowl over very low heat for 3 to 5 seconds to soften slightly. Remove from heat and beat until smooth. Repeat warming technique as necessary. Gradually beat in cooled white chocolate mixture, then orange peel and vanilla extract. Chill buttercream until beginning to firm, about 30 minutes.
1 cup seedless raspberry jam
6 cups (about) assorted fresh berries (raspberries; blueberries; blackberries, halved if large; and sliced strawberries)
Cut each cake in half horizontally. Place 1 layer on 11-inch-diameter tart pan bottom or cardboard round. Spread with 1/2 cup jam, then 1 1/4 cups buttercream. Arrange half of berries atop buttercream, spacing about 1/2 inch apart. Press second cake layer atop berries. Repeat layering of jam, buttercream and remaining berries. Top with third cake layer (reserve remaining cake layer for another use).
Spread 2 cups buttercream in thin layer over top and sides of assembled cake to anchor crumbs and smooth surface. Refrigerate cake on its base until crumb coat is firm, about 30 minutes.
Spread 2 1/4 cups buttercream over top and sides of cake. Spoon remaining buttercream into pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Pipe decorative border around top edge of cake. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate.)
4 cups (about) assorted fresh berries (blueberries, raspberries, blackberries and strawberries)
1/2 cup currant jelly
Place cake with its base on platter. Fill top center of cake with berries. Melt jelly in heavy small saucepan over low heat, stirring constantly. Using pastry brush, brush warm jelly over tops of most berries. Let cake stand at room temperature at least 1 hour and up to 3 hours.
Using long knife, cut cake into quarters. Cut each quarter into 6 wedges.

Mississippi Mud Cake 
2 1/4 cups sugar
2 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups whole milk
16 tablespoons unsalted butter
3/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 1/3 cups semisweet chocolate chips (about 14 ounces)
1 1/2 cups pecan halves (about 7 ounces), toasted
6 tablespoons whipping cream
6 tablespoons dark corn syrup

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 15 1/2x10 1/2x1-inch baking sheet. Whisk sugar, flour, baking soda and salt in large bowl to blend. Whisk milk, butter and cocoa powder in heavy medium saucepan over medium heat just until butter melts and mixture is smooth. Remove saucepan from heat. Whisk cocoa mixture, then eggs and vanilla into dry ingredients. Spread batter in prepared pan and sprinkle with 1 cup chocolate chips. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Arrange toasted pecans atop cake. Cool cake in pan.
Meanwhile, bring whipping cream and corn syrup to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Add remaining 1 1/3 cups chocolate chips. Whisk until chocolate chips have melted and glaze is smooth. Cool glaze 15 minutes.
Pour glaze evenly over cake. Chill at least 1 hour and up to 2 days.

Pecan Praline Cake 
2 1/2 cups cake flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups sugar
4 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup whole milk
1 1/2 cups chopped pecans
3 tablespoons water
3 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon bourbon
Vanilla Cream Cheese Frosting
Pecan Praline Topping

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms of pans with waxed paper; butter paper. Whisk flour, baking powder and salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until well blended after each addition. Mix in vanilla. Beat in dry ingredients in 3 additions alternately with milk in 2 additions, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Stir in chopped pecans. Divide batter between pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean and cakes begin to pull away from sides of pans, about 35 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. If necessary, run small knife around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks; peel off waxed paper. Cool cakes completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap in foil and store at room temperature.)
Stir 3 tablespoons water and sugar in small saucepan over medium heat until sugar dissolves and mixture comes to simmer. Remove from heat. Stir in bourbon. Cool.
Using 9-inch-diameter tart pan bottom as aid, transfer 1 cake layer, flat side up, to platter. Brush some of syrup over top of cake. Spread 1 cup cream cheese frosting over top. Top with second cake layer, flat side up. Brush top and sides of cake with remaining syrup. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Arrange Pecan Praline Topping all over top of cake, mounding slightly in center. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.)

Passover Spongecake with Apples 
1/2 cup matzo cake meal
1/4 cup potato starch
6 large eggs, separated, at room temperature
3/4 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
1 teaspoon finely grated fresh lemon zest
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 Golden Delicious apples, peeled and thinly sliced

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F.
Sift cake meal with potato starch.
Beat together yolks and 1/2 cup sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer on high speed until pale and very thick.
Stir in zest and juice.
Beat whites with salt in another bowl with cleaned beaters on high speed until soft peaks form. Gradually beat in 1/4 cup sugar and beat until whites just hold stiff, glossy peaks.
Fold cake-meal mixture into yolk mixture, then fold in whites in 3 batches.
Stir together remaining tablespoon sugar and cinnamon.
Spoon one third of batter into an ungreased 9-inch springform pan.
Top with half of apple slices and sprinkle with half of cinnamon sugar. Repeat with half of remaining batter and remaining apples and cinnamon sugar. Gently spread remaining batter over apples, smoothing top.
Bake cake in middle of oven until top is golden and firm and a tester comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes, then loosen edge with a knife and remove side of pan. Cool completely.

Hazelnut, Chocolate and Strawberry Torte 
1 1/4 cups hazelnuts, toasted, husked
2 tablespoons plus 1/3 cup sugar
3/4 cup all purpose flour, sifted
4 large eggs
2 1/4 cups whipping cream
1 pound bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 1-pint basket strawberries, hulled, thinly sliced
Additional strawberries, left whole
Additional hazelnuts, toasted, husked (optional)

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter and flour 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom with parchment. Butter and flour parchment. Finely grind hazelnuts and 2 tablespoons sugar in processor. Place 2/3 cup ground-nut mixture in medium bowl; add flour and whisk to blend. Reserve remaining nut mixture for garnish.
Using electric mixer, beat eggs and 2/3 cup sugar in large bowl until mixture is thick and slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are lifted, about 8 minutes. Fold in flour mixture in 3 additions.
Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake cake until top is golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 28 minutes. Transfer cake to rack. Cool in pan 10 minutes. Run small knife between pan sides and cake to loosen. Turn cake out onto rack; peel off parchment. Cool completely.
Bring cream to simmer in large saucepan. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and whisk until melted and smooth. Pour into 13x9x2-inch glass dish. Refrigerate until ganache thickens to spreadable consistency, stirring occasionally, about 1 hour 30 minutes (ganache will resemble thick pudding). Transfer 3/4 cup chocolate ganache to small bowl; set aside for garnish.
Cut cake horizontally into 2 layers (layers will be thin). Place 1 cake layer, cut side up, on platter. Spread 1/2 cup chocolate ganache over. Arrange sliced strawberries in slightly overlapping concentric circles over ganache. Spread 1/2 cup ganache over cut side of second cake layer. Place cake layer atop strawberries, ganache side down, and press slightly to adhere. Spread remaining chocolate ganache over sides and top of cake. Gently press reserved ground hazelnuts onto sides of cake.
Transfer reserved 3/4 cup ganache to pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Pipe 8 rosettes around top edge of cake, spacing apart. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before continuing.)
Starting 1/3 inch from stem end of whole strawberries, thinly slice strawberries lengthwise to tip. Press slices slightly to fan. Place fanned berries between rosettes on cake. Garnish with additional toasted hazelnuts, if desired.

Sugar Cookies ( inchTea Cakes inch) 
2 1/2 cups self-rising White Lily or cake flour
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 large egg, lightly beaten
1 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Put flour in a bowl and make a well in center. Beat together butter and sugar in another bowl with an electric mixer until light and fluffy, then beat in egg and vanilla until blended.
Add butter mixture to flour and rub it into flour with your fingertips just until dough comes together in a ball (do not overwork dough, or it will be tough). 3Halve dough and work with 1 half at a time. Roll out dough 1/4 inch thick on a floured surface with a lightly floured rolling pin. Cut out cookies with a floured cutter (we used a 2 1/2-inch fluted round cutter), arranging cookies, as cut, 1 inch apart on ungreased baking sheets. Reroll scraps once, using as little flour as possible, and cut out more cookies.
Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, in middle of oven until very pale golden, 12 to 15 minutes. Cool on baking sheet 1 minute, then transfer to a rack to cool 5 minutes if serving warm, or to cool completely.

Individual Blueberry-Coconut Pound Cakes 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
2 teaspoons freshly grated lime zest
2 large eggs
5 tablespoons heavy cream
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup plus 3 tablespoons sweetened flaked coconut
1/2 cup blueberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and butter and flour 9 (1/2-cup) muffin cups (just butter if nonstick).
Beat together butter, sugar, and zest until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time. Beat in cream, then flour and salt, on low speed until just combined. Stir in 1/2 cup coconut and gently stir in blueberries.
Spoon batter into cups and smooth tops. Sprinkle tops with remaining 3 tablespoons coconut.
Bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean and edges are golden brown, about 25 minutes. Invert onto a rack and cool.

Pecan Crescents 
1 cup pecans (4 ounces)
2 sticks salted butter, softened
1 (1-pound) box confectioners sugar
1 tablespoon water
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups sifted all-purpose flour (sift before measuring)
Special equipment: a pastry cloth

Pulse pecans in a food processor until finely ground (being careful not to grind to a paste). Beat butter with an electric mixer until smooth and creamy, then add 5 tablespoons sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating until smooth. Beat in water and vanilla, then flour and nuts, beating on low speed until blended well. Chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, at least 2 hours.
Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
On a lightly floured pastry cloth, roll level teaspoons of dough into 3-inch ropes, tapering ends. Curve each roll, as formed, into a crescent and arrange crescents 1 inch apart on greased baking sheets. Bake in batches in middle of oven until pale golden, 12 to 14 minutes. While cookies are baking, sift remaining confectioners sugar into a shallow bowl. As cookies are done, transfer, a few at a time, to sugar and gently toss to coat, tapping off excess. (Sugar will melt slightly onto hot cookies.) Cool cookies on a rack. If you want sugar coating to be white and powdery, toss cookies in confectioners sugar again when cool

Old-Fashioned Stack Cake 
1 pound dried apple slices
5 cups water
2 cups sugar
1/4 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup buttermilk
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
5 to 6 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon salt
1 cup vegetable shortening
2 1/2 cups sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
confectioners' sugar for dusting
Accompaniment: cinnamon-flavored whipped cream

In a large bowl combine apples and water and chill, covered, overnight.
Transfer apples and water to a large heavy saucepan (at least 5 quarts) and add sugar, salt, and cinnamon. Bring mixture to a boil, stirring, and cook at a low simmer, stirring frequently, until softened, 30 to 40 minutes. Stir in vanilla and cool completely. In a food processor pulse apple mixture in batches until chopped coarse, transferring to a large bowl. Filling may be made 1 day ahead and chilled, covered.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
In a small bowl stir together buttermilk, baking soda, and baking powder and set aside. Into a large bowl sift together 4 cups flour and salt.
In another large bowl with an electric mixer beat shortening with sugar until light and fluffy. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in vanilla. Add buttermilk mixture and beat until combined well. Gradually add flour mixture, beating until combined well. Add enough of remaining 2 cups flour, 1/4 cup at a time, to form a soft but not sticky dough.
Turn dough out onto a lightly floured surface and divide into 6 pieces. Working on a lightly floured sheet of wax paper shape each piece into a disk and roll each disk into a 9-inch round. Arrange rounds on wax paper and gently prick dough all over with a fork. Bake layers one at a time on wax paper on a baking sheet in middle of oven until golden, 12 to 15 minutes. Cool layers completely on racks and carefully remove wax paper.
Spread 1 cup filling on one cake layer and top with another cake layer. Continue layering filling and cake layers in same manner, ending with a cake layer. (Reserve any remaining filling for another use.) Chill cake, covered, overnight and bring to room temperature before serving. Dust top of cake with confectioners' sugar and serve with whipped cream.

Lighter-Than-Air Chocolate Roll 
6 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
3 tablespoons water
6 large eggs, separated, at room temperature
2/3 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 tablespoon Dutch-process unsweetened cocoa powder
1 cup heavy cream
3 tablespoons confectioners sugar, sifted
2 tablespoons Grand Marnier
1 teaspoon finely grated fresh orange zest
Garnish: unsweetened cocoa powder and confectioners sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Oil a 15- by 10- by 1-inch shallow baking pan and line bottom lengthwise | with a large piece of wax or parchment paper, letting paper hang over ends by 2 inches.
Melt chocolate with water in a small heavy saucepan over very low heat, stirring. Cool to lukewarm.
Beat yolks, 1/3 cup sugar, and salt in a large bowl with an electric mixer until thick and pale, about 5 minutes in a standing mixer or about 8 minutes with a hand-held mixer. Fold in melted chocolate until blended. Beat whites with cleaned beaters until they just hold soft peaks. Gradually add remaining 1/3 cup sugar and beat until whites just hold stiff peaks. Fold one third of whites into melted-chocolate mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Spread batter evenly in baking pan and bake in middle of oven until puffed and top is dry to the touch, 15 to 18 minutes. Transfer pan to a rack. Cover top with 2 layers of damp paper towels and let stand 5 minutes, then remove towels and cool completely. Loosen edges with a sharp knife.
Sift cocoa powder over top of cake layer and overlap 2 layers of wax paper lengthwise over cake. Place a baking sheet over paper and invert cake onto it, gently peeling off wax paper lining. (Don’t worry if cake layer breaks; it will hold together when rolled.)
Beat cream with confectioners sugar and Grand Marnier with cleaned beaters until it just holds stiff peaks. Fold in zest.
Spread filling evenly over cake. Put a long platter next to a long side of cake. Using wax paper as an aid, roll up cake jelly roll–style, beginning with a long side. Carefully transfer, seam side down, to platter, using wax paper to help slide cake. (Cake will crack but will still hold together.)
Dust cake generously with cocoa powder and confectioners sugar.

Lime Mousse Cake 
2 cups ground gingersnap cookies (about 38 cookies)
2 tablespoons sugar
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
6 tablespoons Key lime juice or fresh lime juice
1 envelope unflavored gelatin
2 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
9 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), chopped
3 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons grated lime peel

Combine ground cookies and sugar in processor. Add melted butter and process, using on/off turns, until moist clumps form. Press mixture onto bottom and 1 inch up sides of 10-inch-diameter springform pan.
Place lime juice in bowl. Sprinkle gelatin over to soften. Bring 1/2 cup cream to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Remove from heat. Add white chocolate and stir until melted and smooth. Stir in gelatin mixture. Cool slightly. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, sugar and lime peel in large bowl to blend. Slowly beat white chocolate mixture into cream cheese mixture. Using clean dry beaters, beat remaining 2 cups whipping cream in another large bowl to peaks. Fold into white chocolate mixture. Pour filling into prepared crust. Cover and refrigerate overnight. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Keep refrigerated.) Release pan sides from cake. Transfer cake to platter and serve.

Lucia's Breakfast Cake 
3 cups all purpose flour
1 1/4 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
6 large egg yolks
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 large egg, beaten to blend (for glaze)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter bottom of 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Blend flour, sugar and salt in processor 5 seconds. Add butter and process, using on/off turns, until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add yolks and vanilla and blend until dough holds together. Press dough onto bottom of prepared pan. Use tines of fork to decorate edge. Brush with glaze. Bake cake until golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Swedish Almond Rusk (Mandel Skorper) 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon almond extract
2 large eggs
3/4 cup slivered almonds (3 ounces)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Sift together flour, cardamom, baking powder, salt, and baking soda.
Beat together butter, sugar, and extract with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in flour mixture at low speed just until combined, then stir in almonds.
Form dough into 4 (11- by 2-inch) logs and place 2 inches apart on an ungreased large baking sheet.
Bake logs in middle of oven until pale golden, about 20 minutes. Cool logs on sheet 5 minutes, then transfer to a cutting board and cut logs diagonally into 1/2-inch-thick slices with a serrated knife using a sawing motion.
Reduce temperature to 300 degrees F.
Arrange rusks, cut sides down, on baking sheets and bake in batches in middle of oven until golden, about 18 minutes. Transfer to a rack to cool.

Mint Chocolate Cookies 
16 tablespoons unsalted butter, room temperature
1 3/4 cups sugar
2 large eggs
3/4 teaspoon peppermint extract
2 cups all purpose flour
1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs and peppermint extract. Add flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder and salt and beat until well blended. Form dough into 1-inch balls. Place 2 inches apart on prepared baking sheets. Flatten balls slightly to 1 1/2-inch rounds.
Bake cookies until edges begin to firm but center still appears soft, about 13 minutes. Cool on baking sheets 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. (Cookies can be prepared up to 5 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Maida Heatter's Chocolate Cookies with Gin-Soaked Raisins 
1/2 cup golden raisins
1/3 cup gin
3 cups sifted confectioners sugar (sift before measuring)
2/3 cup sifted unsweetened cocoa powder, preferably Dutch-process (sift before measuring)
1 teaspoon instant espresso powder
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour (unsifted)
3/4 teaspoon salt
3 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
8 oz pecans (2 1/4 cups), toasted, cooled, and coarsely chopped

Combine raisins and gin in a cup and let stand at least 8 hours to macerate.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 2 large baking sheets, shaking off excess flour.
Mix confectioners sugar, cocoa, espresso powder, flour, and salt with an electric mixer at low speed. Add egg whites and vanilla and continue mixing until smooth.
Drain raisins in a sieve, without pressing, then add raisins to dough with pecans. Stir until thoroughly mixed. (Dough will be thick and sticky.)
Working quickly, drop 1/4 cup dough for each cookie onto a baking sheet, spacing cookies at least 3 inches apart, and gently pat down each mound to about 1/2 inch thick.
Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, in middle of oven, rotating sheet halfway through baking, 15 to 17 minutes total, or until cookies appear cracked and centers are just set. Cool cookies on sheet 1 minute, then transfer carefully to a rack to cool completely.

Pecan Torte with Strawberries and Cream 
1 1/4 cups pecans (6 1/4 oz)
3 1/2 tablespoons matzo cake meal
1 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar
7 large eggs, separated, at room temperature
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh lemon zest
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy cream (optional)
3/4 pint strawberries, sliced lengthwise (2 cups)
Special equipment: a 10- by 4-inch (12-cup) angel food cake pan with removable bottom

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Pulse pecans, cake meal, and 3 tablespoons sugar in a food processor until nuts are very finely chopped.
Beat yolks and 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer on high speed until pale and very thick. Stir in lemon zest and juice.
Beat whites with salt in another bowl with cleaned beaters on high speed until soft peaks form. Gradually beat in 5 tablespoons sugar and beat until whites just hold stiff, glossy peaks.
In 3 batches, alternately fold nut mixture and whites into yolk mixture. Spoon batter into ungreased pan and smooth top.
Bake cake in middle of oven until golden and a tester comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool in pan, upside-down, 2 hours. (If pan has  inchlegs, inch stand it on those. Otherwise, invert pan over neck of a bottle.)
Turn pan right side up, then run a long thin knife around outer edge of cake with a smooth (not sawing) motion. Loosen center in same manner. Remove outer rim of pan and run knife under bottom of cake to release. Invert cake onto a cake plate.
Beat cream with remaining tablespoon sugar until it just holds stiff peaks. Spread evenly over top and sides of cake and arrange strawberries on top. Serve chilled.

Lemon Layer Cake with Lemon Cream Frosting 
2 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup whole milk
2 1/2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup heavy cream
1/2 cup confectioners sugar
Lemon curd , chilled
Garnish: candied violets

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter 2 (8- by 2-inch) round cake pans and line bottoms of each with rounds of wax or parchment paper. Butter paper and dust pans with flour, knocking out excess. Sift together flour, baking soda, and salt. Stir together milk and lemon juice (mixture will curdle).
Beat butter in a large bowl with an electric mixer until creamy. Gradually add sugar, beating until pale and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Alternately add flour mixture and milk mixture in batches, beginning and ending with flour, mixing at low speed until just combined.
Divide batter between pans, smoothing tops. Bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool in pans on racks 10 minutes, then invert onto racks, remove paper, and cool completely.
Beat cream and confectioners sugar with cleaned beaters until it just holds stiff peaks. Fold one third of whipped cream into lemon curd to lighten, then fold in remaining whipped cream.
Put 1 cake layer, rounded side up, on a cake plate and spread with one fourth of frosting. Top with second layer, rounded side up, and spread top and sides with remaining frosting.

Glazed Pear and Pecan Cake 
3 cups sugar
4 eggs
3/4 cup vegetable oil
1 1/2 tablespoons pear vinegar or white wine vinegar
2 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon ground cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 pounds Bosc pears (about 2 very large), peeled, cored, cut into 1/2- to 3/4-inch pieces
1 cup toasted pecan pieces
3/4 cup diced dried pear (about 3 ounces)
2 cups pear nectar
1 cup whipping cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 13x9-inch baking pan. Dust pan with flour. Using electric mixer, beat 2 cups sugar with eggs, oil and vinegar in large bowl at high speed until very thick, about 4 minutes. Combine dry ingredients in medium bowl. Reserve 1/4 cup dry ingredients; mix remaining dry ingredients into egg mixture. Toss pears, pecans and dried pears with reserved dry ingredients to coat. Mix into batter. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 1 hour.
Meanwhile, combine remaining 2 cup sugar, pear nectar and whipping cream in heavy small saucepan. Stir over high heat until sugar dissolves. Boil until thick, about 20 minutes. Spoon 1/2 cup glaze over hot cake. Let cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover cake and let stand at room temperature. Cover remaining glaze and chill.)
Rewarm glaze in heavy small saucepan over low heat. Cut cake into squares. Spoon glaze over and serve.

Pistachio Cake 
3/4 cup shelled natural pistachios (4 ounces)
1 cup all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup whole milk
1/4 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
3 large eggs

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 13- by 9-inch metal cake pan, then line bottom with wax paper. Butter paper and dust pan with some flour, knocking out excess.
Pulse pistachios in a food processor until finely ground (be careful not to overprocess into a paste). Add 1 cup flour, baking powder, cardamom, and salt and pulse once or twice to mix.
Combine milk and vanilla in a measuring cup.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Alternately add pistachio flour and milk in batches, beginning and ending with flour, and mix at low speed until just combined.
Spread batter evenly in cake pan and bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes, then run a thin knife around sides of cake and invert onto rack. Remove paper and reinvert cake onto a platter. Cut into squares and serve warm or at room temperature.

Havlah Ice Cream Torte 
30 chocolate wafer cookies (about 2/3 of 9-ounce package), broken
3 tablespoons chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
3 tablespoons (packed) golden brown sugar
3 cups coarsely crumbled vanilla-flavor halvah (about 12 ounces)
3 pints (6 cups) vanilla ice cream, softened slightly

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Blend cookies, butter and sugar in processor until cookies are finely ground. Add 1 1/2 cups halvah and blend in, using on/off turns. Sprinkle 1 1/4 cups crumb mixture over bottom of 9-inch-diameter glass pie dish. Press remaining crumb mixture firmly over bottom and halfway up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan. Bake until crumb mixture in pie dish and crust in pan begin to puff, about 10 minutes. Cool crumb mixture and crust completely.
Spread 1 1/2 pints ice cream evenly on cooled crust in springform pan. Sprinkle with 1 cup crumbled halvah. Spread remaining ice cream over. Break up crumb mixture from pie dish. Sprinkle evenly over ice cream; press to adhere for top crust. Sprinkle with remaining 1/2 cup crumbled halvah. Cover; freeze torte until firm, at least 3 hours and up to 5 days.

Pecan and Brown Sugar Crescents 
1 cup all purpose flour
3/4 cup pecans, lightly toasted
1/2 cup (1 stick) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
Pinch of salt
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Combine all ingredients except powdered sugar in processor. Using on/off turns, process until mixture resembles coarse meal; then process continuously until dough begins to come together.
Roll 2 teaspoonfuls of dough between palms of hands to form 2 1/2-inch-long rope, tapering at ends. Place on ungreased baking sheet; curl in ends to form crescent shape. Repeat with remaining dough, spacing cookies 1 inch apart.
Bake cookies until just firm to touch, about 20 minutes. Cool on sheet 5 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool. Sift powdered sugar over. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Sour Cream Chocolate-Chip Cake 
1 cup finely chopped pecans
1/4 cup whole pecans
1 12-ounce package of chocolate chips
1/4 cup packed brown sugar
2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 cups flour
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) butter
2 eggs
1 cup sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 cup powdered sugar (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 10- to 12-cup Bundt pan; dust with flour.
In a medium bowl, combine brown sugar, chocolate chips, chopped pecans, and cinnamon, and set aside.
Sift flour, baking powder, and baking soda into a medium bowl and set aside.
Using an electric mixer, cream butter and sugar until completely blended. Beat in eggs and then sour cream until the mixture is creamy and smooth. Slowly add the sifted dry ingredients, making certain to scrape the sides of the bowl into the mixture. Stir in the cinnamon and vanilla. Mix until batter is well blended.
Sprinkle whole pecans on the bottom of the prepared pan. Evenly distribute 1/4 cup of topping in the pan. Fold the remaining topping into the batter until mixed well. Pour the batter into the pan, spread evenly, and bake 35-40 minutes. To test that the cake is done, insert a tester (I use a toothpick) into the center. If the cake is done, it will come out clean, without any batter sticking to it.
Cool the cake for at least 20 minutes in the pan. Once the cake has cooled, put a plate or serving piece you will use upside down on top of the cake pan, so that the face of the plate covers the open portion of the cake pan completely. Invert the plate and pan at the same time and place on a flat surface. Using pot holders, slowly raise the pan so that the cake stands upright on the serving plate. Sprinkle with powdered sugar to decorate.

Streusel Coffee Cake 
1/2 cup firmly packed brown sugar
1/2 cup rolled oats
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) chilled butter
3 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon nutmeg
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/3 cups sugar
3 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups plain yogurt
1 medium apple, peeled, cored, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease two 9x5x3-inch loaf pans. Combine first 3 ingredients in small bowl. Cut in 1/4 cup chilled butter using fingers or pastry blender until mixture resembles coarse meal. Set streusel mixture aside.
Sift flour, baking powder, baking soda and nutmeg into large bowl. Using electronic mixer, cream 3/4 cup butter and 1 1/3 cups sugar together in another large bowl until fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in vanilla. Fold in dry ingredients alternately with plain yogurt, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Pour about 1 1/2 cups batter into bottom of each prepared pan. Sprinkle 1/3 cup streusel over each. Sprinkle 1/4 of apple over each. Divide remaining batter, streusel and apple between pans, beginning with batter. Run small sharp knife through batter to create swirl. Bake until golden brown and toothpick inserted into centers comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Cool on rack. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Vanilla Ice Cream and Ginger Molasses Cookie Sandwiches 
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground cloves
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/4 cup vegetable shortening, room temperature
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1 egg
1/4 cup unsulfured (light) molasses
1 tablespoon grated orange peel
Sugar
1 pint vanilla ice cream, softened slightly
1/2 cup chopped drained stem ginger in syrup
Fresh strawberries, hulled, sliced

Sift first 6 ingredients into medium bowl. Combine butter, shortening and brown sugar in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter mixture until fluffy. Add egg, molasses and peel; beat until blended. Add dry ingredients; mix just until incorporated. Cover; chill 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 baking sheets. Place sugar in small bowl. Using wet hands, form dough into 12 equal pieces; shape pieces into balls. Roll in sugar to coat. Transfer to prepared sheets, spacing 2 1/2 inches apart. Bake until cookies are pale golden and cracked on top but still soft, about 15 minutes. Cool on sheets 1 minute. Transfer to racks; cool completely.
Place ice cream in medium bowl. Stir in ginger. Freeze until almost firm, about 30 minutes.
Place 6 cookies on work surface, flat side up. Top each with 1/3 cup ice cream. Spread to 1/4 inch from edge of cookies. Top each with second cookie. Press to adhere. Place in freezer. Freeze until firm, at least 2 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap tightly; keep frozen.)
Arrange sandwiches on plates. Garnish with berries and serve.

Apricot Almond Shortbreads 
3/4 cup dried apricots (about 4 ounces)
1 cup water
1/4 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons apricot brandy
2 tablespoons superfine sugar
1/2 cup well-chilled heavy cream, whipped into soft peaks
36 Almond Shortbread Shells
Garnish: 1/4 cup sliced almonds, toasted

In a small heavy saucepan simmer purée ingredients, covered, 10 minutes. In a food processor purée mixture until smooth. Purée may be make 1 week ahead and chilled, covered.
In a small bowl fold brandy and sugar into whipped cream and chill, covered.
Transfer purée and brandied cream to separate pastry bags fitted with 1/4-inch star tips. Pipe cream into shells until level with tops and pipe a 1/2-inch-high mound of purée on top.
Sprinkle desserts with confectioners' sugar and garnish with almonds.

Blackberry Jam Cake with Walnuts and Caramel Icing 
3 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
6 large eggs
1 cup seedless blackberry jam (about 10 1/2 ounces)
3/4 cup buttermilk
1 cup walnut pieces (about 4 ounces), toasted, chopped
1 1/2 cups (packed) dark brown sugar
1 cup evaporated milk
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 tablespoons mild-flavored (light) molasses
1/4 teaspoon (generous) salt
6 1/3 cups (about 1 3/4 pounds) powdered sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Sift first 6 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add sugar, beating until well blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in jam. Beat in dry ingredients in 4 additions alternately with buttermilk in 3 additions. Fold in walnuts. Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool cakes in pans 10 minutes. Run knife around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely.
Combine brown sugar, evaporated milk, butter, molasses and salt in heavy medium saucepan. Whisk over medium-low heat until blended and smooth. Transfer mixture to large bowl. Cool to lukewarm, whisking occasionally, about 15 minutes. Working in batches, sift powdered sugar into mixture, beating until smooth after each addition. Beat in vanilla extract. Cover and refrigerate icing until firm enough to spread, about 30 minutes.
Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on serving platter. Spread 1 1/2 cups icing over top. Top with second cake layer, flat side down. Spread remaining icing over top and sides of cake. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover cake and refrigerate. Let cake stand at room temperature 2 hours before serving.)

Chocolate Walnut Biscotti 
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 cup unsweetened Dutch-process cocoa powder
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 large egg
1 tablespoon freshly grated orange zest
1 tablespoon fresh orange juice
1/2 cup chopped walnuts, toasted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and butter a large baking sheet.
In a bowl whisk together flour, cocoa powder, baking powder, and salt. In another bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugar until light and fluffy. Add egg, zest, and orange juice and beat until combined will. Stir in flour mixture until a stiff dough is formed. Stir in walnuts.
On baking sheet with floured hands form dough into two 9-inch-long logs and bake in middle of oven until slightly firm to the touch, about 13 minutes. Cool biscotti on baking sheet in a rack 15 minutes. In a cutting board with a serrated knife cut logs diagonally into 1/2-inch-thick slices. Arrange biscotti, a cut side down, on baking sheet and bake until crisp, about 15 minutes. Cool biscotti on rack. Biscotti may be made 1 week ahead and kept in airtight containers, or 1 month ahead and frozen.

Valentine Chocolate-Cherry Ice Cream Bombe 
1 16-ounce jar purchased hot fudge sauce
1 12-ounce package semisweet chocolate chips
3 tablespoons water
1/4 cup brandy
3 pints cherry-vanilla ice cream with chocolate chunks or fudge flakes, slightly softened
1 1/2 pints chocolate sorbet or chocolate-cherry sorbet, slightly softened
1 9-ounce package chocolate wafer cookies

Stir first 3 ingredients in heavy medium saucepan over medium-low heat until melted and smooth. Remove from heat. Whisk in brandy. Cool.
Line 10-inch-diameter, 10-cup metal bowl with plastic wrap, extending over sides. Spread cherry-vanilla ice cream over inside of bowl to within 3/4 inch of top edge, leaving center 6-inch-diameter hollow. Freeze 30 minutes. Fill hollow completely with sorbet; smooth top. Overlap half of cookies (about 22) atop ice cream and sorbet, covering completely and pressing gently. Spread 1* cups fudge sauce over cookies. Overlap remaining cookies atop sauce. Cover; freeze bombe overnight. Cover and chill remaining sauce. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Keep bombe frozen. Keep sauce chilled.)
Rewarm remaining sauce over low heat, stirring often. Turn bombe out onto platter. Peel off plastic. Cut bombe into wedges. Serve with remaining sauce.

Bonnie Donaldson's Ranger Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup vegetable shortening
1 cup granulated sugar
1 cup packed light brown sugar
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups quick-cooking rolled oats
2 cups Special K cereal
12 ounce bag milk-chocolate chips
1 cup sweetened flaked coconut

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Sift together flour, baking soda and powder, and salt. Beat together shortening, sugars, eggs, and vanilla with an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Beat in flour mixture on low speed until just combined. Stir in oats, cereal, chips, and coconut.
Drop rounded tablespoons of batter 2 inches apart on greased baking sheets.
Bake cookies, 1 sheet at a time, in middle of oven until golden brown, 15 to 18 minutes. Cool cookies on sheets 1 minute, then transfer to a rack to cool completely.

Toasted Coconut Macadamia Pound Cake 
2 cups sweetened flaked coconut (about 6 ounces)
a 7-ounce jar macadamia nuts (about 1 1/2 cups)
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups firmly packed light brown sugar
8 ounces cream cheese, softened
4 large eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla
2 2/3 cups all-purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup of water
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup amber or dark rum

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and butter and flour a 10-inch (3 quart) bundt pan.
Spread coconut in a shallow baking pan and toast in middle of oven, stirring occasionally and watching carefully to avoid burning, until golden, 10 to 12 minutes. Transfer coconut to a bowl and cool. Spread nuts in pan and toast in middle of oven until pale golden, 8 to 10 minutes. Cool nuts and chop coarse.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and brown sugar until light and fluffy and beat in cream cheese. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in vanilla. Sift flour, baking powder, and salt into bowl and beat just until combined well. Stir in coconut and chopped nuts.
Spread batter evenly in pan and bake in middle of oven 1 hour to 1 hour and 10 minutes, or until tester comes out clean. Cool cake in pan on a rack 5 minutes and invert onto rack.
In a small heavy saucepan bring water with sugar to a boil, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Stir in rum.
Brush hot glaze evenly over outside of warm cake until absorbed. Cool cake completely.

Chocolate Ganache Cake 
3/4 cup boiling water
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
1 teaspoon instant-espresso powder
1/2 cup whole milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/4 teaspoons baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2 cups packed dark brown sugar
4 large eggs
2 1/2 cups heavy cream
20 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), finely chopped in a food processor

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 3 (7- or 8-inch, 2-inch-deep) round cake pans and line bottoms with rounds of wax or parchment paper. Butter paper and dust pans with flour, knocking out excess.
Whisk together water, cocoa, and espresso powder until smooth, then whisk in milk and vanilla.
Sift together flour, baking soda, and salt.
Beat together butter and brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until fluffy, then add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add flour mixture and cocoa mixture in batches, beginning and ending with flour and mixing at low speed until just combined.
Divide batter among pans (about 2 1/3 cups per pan), smoothing tops. Bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, 30 to 35 minutes for 7-inch pans or 20 to 25 minutes for 8-inch. Cool in pans on a rack 30 minutes, then invert onto racks, remove paper, and cool completely.
Bring cream to a simmer in a 3- to 4-quart saucepan and remove from heat. Whisk in chocolate until smooth. Transfer ganache to a bowl and chill, covered, stirring occasionally, until thickened but spreadable, about 4 hours. (If ganache becomes too thick, let stand at room temperature until slightly softened.)
Arrange 1 layer on a cake stand or plate and spread 2/3 cup ganache evenly over it. Top with another cake layer and 2/3 cup ganache, spreading evenly, then third cake layer. (Chill ganache if necessary to keep at a spreadable consistency.) Chill cake until ganache filling is firm, about 1 hour. Keep remaining ganache at a spreadable consistency, chilling when necessary.
Spread a thin layer of ganache over top and sides of cake to seal in crumbs, then chill 30 minutes. Spread remaining ganache evenly over top and sides of cake.

Chocolate Mint Layer Cake 
3 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 cups cold water
2 cups sugar
1 cup corn oil
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups (about 10 ounces) mint-flavored chocolate chips
5 cups powdered sugar
3/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
8 tablespoons (about) milk
1 1/2 teaspoons peppermint extract
1 1/4 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup (about 6 ounces) mint-flavored chocolate chips
1/4 cup red-and-white striped peppermint candies or candy canes (broken into pieces)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Sift flour, cocoa powder, baking soda and salt into medium bowl. Mix 2 cups cold water and sugar in large bowl until sugar dissolves. Gradually mix in corn oil and vanilla extract. Whisk in dry ingredients. Divide cake batter among prepared pans. Sprinkle 1/2 cup mint-flavored chocolate chips over cake batter in each pan.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on rack 15 minutes. Cut around pan sides. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely.
Combine powdered sugar, cocoa powder, unsalted butter, 6 tablespoons milk, peppermint extract and vanilla extract in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat frosting until smooth. Thin with more milk by tablespoonfuls, if necessary.
Place 1 cake layer, chocolate-chip side up, on platter. Spread 2/3 cup frosting over. Sprinkle with 1/2 cup chocolate chips. Top with second cake layer, chocolate-chip side up. Spread 2/3 cup frosting over. Sprinkle with 1/2 cup chocolate chips. Top with remaining cake layer, chocolate-chip side down. Spread remaining frosting over sides and top of cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; let stand at room temperature.)
Place striped peppermint candies in heavy plastic bag. Crush with hammer. Sprinkle candies over cake.

Snickers Cake 
10 ounces semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
8 large eggs, separated, room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/4 cups roasted unsalted peanuts, coarsely chopped (about 6 ounces)
1 cup cake flour
Pinch of cream of tartar
5 egg yolks
1 1/2 cups plus 1 1/2 tablespoons sugar
1 1/2 cups water
10 ounces semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
2 1/4 cups (4 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into tablespoon-size pieces, room temperature
10 1-ounce Snickers bars, chopped into small pieces

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease three 8-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottoms with waxed paper. Melt chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water; stir until smooth. Remove from over water and cool to barely lukewarm.
Using electric mixer, cream butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Gradually add 1 1/4 cups sugar, beating until smooth. Beat in egg yolks 1 at a time. Mix in vanilla. Stir in chocolate, then peanuts. Sift flour over batter and gently fold in. (Batter will be very thick.)
Using clean dry beaters, beat whites with cream of tartar in another large bowl to soft peaks. Gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold 1/2 of whites into batter to lighten. Gently fold in remaining whites. Divide batter among prepared pans. Bake until tester inserted in centers comes out clean and tops are crusty, 25 to 30 minutes. Cool in pans on racks 10 minutes. Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen, if necessary. Turn out onto racks. Peel off paper. Cool to room temperature. (Cakes can be prepared 2 days ahead. Wrap tightly and refrigerate.)
Using electric mixer, beat yolks in bowl until pale yellow and slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are lifted, 5 minutes. Meanwhile, stir sugar and water in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and boil without stirring until candy thermometer set in syrup registers 234 degrees F. to 240 degrees F. (soft-ball stage).
Beat hot syrup into egg yolks in slow steady stream. Continue beating until thick and cool, about 10 minutes.
Melt chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water; stir until smooth. Remove from over water and let stand until cool but still liquid. Gradually beat butter into yolk mixture 1 tablespoon at a time. Add chocolate and stir to combine. Transfer 2 cups buttercream to small bowl; stir in chopped Snickers bars.
Place one cake layer on platter top side down. Spread half of Snickers buttercream over. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining Snickers buttercream over. Top with third cake layer. Spoon 1 cup plain buttercream into pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Frost top and sides of cake with remaining buttercream. (Can be assembled 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate.) Bring cake to room temperature before serving.

Apricot Almond Shortbread Shells 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup confectioners' sugar
1/3 cup cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/3 cup blanched whole almonds, toasted and ground fine
2 sticks (1 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into bits
1 teaspoon almond extract

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and butter 36 mini-muffin cups.
Into a bowl sift together flour, confectioners' sugar, cornstarch, and salt. In a food processor pulse mixture with almonds until combined well. Add butter and almond extract and blend until a dough just forms, about 1 minute.
On a lightly floured surface with floured hands form dough into thirty-six 1-inch balls. Press balls lightly into cups and bake in middle of oven until pale golden, about 15 minutes. Cool shortbreads in cups on racks 2 minutes and with a 3/4-inch melon-ball cutter carefully scoop out an indentation about 1/4 inch deep in centers. Cool shells completely. Gently loosen sides of shells with a thin knife and carefully remove from cups (shells will be very fragile). Shells may be make 3 days ahead and kept in am airtight container at room temperature.

Bittersweet Chocolate Fallen Soufflé Cakes 
6 ounces fine-quality bittersweet (not unsweetened) chocolate, chopped, plus grated bittersweet chocolate for garnish
1 1/2 tablespoons unsalted butter
2 teaspoons instant espresso powder dissolved in 1 tablespoon hot water
2 tablespoons Kahlúa or dark rum
2 large egg yolks
3 large egg whites
3 tablespoons heavy cream
lightly sweetened whipped cream as an a accompaniment

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter two 1 1/4-cup ramekins and coat the inside of each ramekin with granulated sugar, knocking out the excess. In a small metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water melt 4 ounces of the chocolate and 1 tablespoon of the butter with the espresso mixture and 1 tablespoon of the Kahlúa or rum, whisk the mixture until it is smooth, and remove the bowl from the heat. Let the chocolate mixture cool for 5 minutes and whisk in the yolks, 1 at a time. In a bowl with an electric mixer beat the whites with a pinch of salt until they just hold stiff peaks, whisk about one fourth of them into the chocolate mixture to lighten it, and fold in the remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Divide the batter between the ramekins and bake the cakes in the middle of the oven for 17 to 20 minutes, or until they are puffed and a tester comes out almost clean. Let the cakes cool in the ramekins on a rack for 3 minutes.
While the cakes are baking, in another small bowl set over the pan of barely simmering water melt 2 ounces of the remaining chocolate with the remaining 1/2 tablespoon butter and the heavy cream and whisk the sauce until it is smooth. Remove the bowl from the heat and whisk in the remaining 1 tablespoon Kahlúa or rum.
Pour half the sauce onto each of 2 dessert plates, run a thin knife around the edge of each ramekin, and invert a cake onto each plate. Top the cakes with the whipped cream and garnish them with the grated chocolate.

Grandma Millspaugh's Fruit Cookies 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2 cups firmly packed light brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup raisins, chopped fine in a food processor
1 cup currants, chopped fine a food processor, plus whole currants for garnish
1 teaspoon ground cloves
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
3 tablespoons buttermilk or water
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
granulated sugar for forming the cookies

In a large bowl with an electric mixer, cream the butter with the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy and beat in the eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add the raisins, the chopped currants, the cloves, and the cinnamon and beat the mixture until it is combined well. Dissolve the baking soda in the buttermilk or water, add the mixture to the fruit mixture, and beat the mixture until it is combined well. Into a bowl sift together the flour and the baking powder, add the flour mixture to the fruit mixture, and beat the dough until it is combined well. Chill the dough, covered, for 1 hour, or until it is firm. The dough may be made 1 week in advance and kept covered tightly and chilled.
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Roll rounded teaspoons of the dough into balls, arrange the balls about 1 inch apart on lightly greased baking sheets, and with the flat bottom of a glass dipped in the granulated sugar, flatten the balls into 1 1/2 rounds. Press a whole currant lightly into the center of each round and bake the cookies in batches in the middle of the oven for 10 to 12 minutes, or until they are golden. Transfer the cookies to racks and let them cool. The cookies may be made 2 months in advance and kept frozen in airtight containers.

Bûche de Noël 
1-1/4 cups cake flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
7 large eggs, separated
1 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 tablespoons confectioner's sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
21 ounces bittersweet chocolate, such as Lindt
1-1/2 cups crème fraîche or heavy, non ultra-pasteurized cream
1/2 cup chestnut purée

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F.
Line a 17 x 11 x 1-inch jelly roll pan with parchment paper. Brush it with melted butter, and dust it with flour.
Sift the flour, baking powder and salt together onto a sheet of parchment paper. Beat the egg yolks and 3/4 cup of the sugar with the whisk attachment in an electric mixer until the mixture is thick and lemon colored. Add the dry ingredients at low speed, mixing until just incorporated. Add the vanilla, mix quickly and thoroughly, and set aside (the batter will be quite thick).
In a separate bowl, whisk the egg whites with a pinch of salt until they form soft points. Add the remaining 1/4 cup of sugar and whisk until the egg whites are glossy and form points that stand up but are not too stiff. Fold one-fourth of the egg whites into the cake batter until they are incorporated, then fold in the remaining egg whites, working quickly. They should be incorporated into the batter, but do not overmix it.
Spread the batter in the prepared pan, and bake until the cake is golden and your finger makes a slight indentation in the top of the cake when you press it, 8 to 10 minutes.
While the cake is baking, sift the confectioner's sugar over a clean kitchen towel.
Remove the cake from the oven, and immediately invert it onto the sugar-dusted towel. Peel the parchment paper from the cake, and starting from one long side, gently roll the cake up in the towel. Allow it to cool for 30 minutes.
Melt the chocolate and the cream together in a medium-sized, heavy saucepan over medium heat. Shake the pan occasionally, and when the chocolate has completely melted, whisk the mixture so it is completely combined. Let it cool to room temperature, so it is thick enough to spread. Transfer 3/4 cup of the chocolate mixture to a small bowl, and whisk in the chestnut purée. Season with vanilla if you like.
When the cake has cooled, unroll it and trim off the edges so it is perfectly even, reserving the trimmings. Spread the filling evenly over the cake to within about 1/8-inch from the edges, and roll the cake back up. Roll the trimmings into spirals, and affix these to the sides of the cake with any leftover filling (usually two  inchknots inch are sufficient!).
Using the frosting, generously frost the cake, including the knots and the ends. Let the cake rest for about 15 minutes, then decorate it, first with the tines of a fork, then with the decorations of your choice. Let sit for at least 8 hours and up to 24 before servings.

Lemon Ginger Cake with Lemon-Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 cups sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 large eggs
3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 cups cake flour
1 tablespoon ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups buttermilk
11 ounces cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
3 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1 1/4 teaspoons vanilla extract
4 3/4 cups powdered sugar, sifted

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350  degrees F. Butter two 9-inch diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pans with waxed paper; butter paper. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in lemon juice, lemon peel and vanilla (mixture may look curdled). Sift flour, ginger, cinnamon, baking powder, baking soda and salt into medium bowl; add to butter mixture alternately with buttermilk in 3 additions each, beginning with dry ingredients.
Divide batter equally between prepared pans. Bake until golden brown and tester inserted into center of cakes comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Transfer pans to racks. Cool 10 minutes. Using small sharp knife, cut around sides of pan to loosen cakes. Turn out cakes onto racks and cool completely. Peel off waxed paper. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap tightly in plastic and store at room temperature.)
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, butter lemon juice, 2 teaspoons lemon peel and vanilla in large bowl until smooth. Add powdered sugar and beat until frosting is smooth.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 1 cup frosting over top. Place remaining cake layer atop. Using icing spatula, spread remaining frosting over sides and top of cake in decorative swirls. Sprinkle top of cake with remaining 1 teaspoon lemon peel. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let cake stand at room temperature 30 minutes before serving.)

Oatmeal Shortcakes with Spiced Plums 
2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup old-fashioned oats
1/2 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup chilled unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
2/3 cup whole milk
2 teaspoons sugar
1 pound firm but ripe plums (about 6), halved, pitted, each cut into 4 wedges
1/3 cup sugar
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
3/4 cup chilled whipping cream
2 tablespoons powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Line large baking sheet with parchment paper. Mix flour, oats, brown sugar, baking powder and salt in large bowl. Using fingertips, rub in butter until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add milk; stir until dough forms.
Drop dough onto prepared baking sheet, forming six 2 1/2-inch-diameter biscuits and spacing 3 inches apart. Sprinkle with 2 teaspoons sugar. Bake until biscuits are golden and tester inserted into biscuit comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Transfer to rack. (Can be made 8 hours ahead. Cool. Store airtight at room temperature.)
Combine plums, 1/3 cup sugar, lemon juice, ginger and cinnamon in heavy medium saucepan. Cook over medium heat until plums release their juices but are still firm, stirring occasionally, about 4 minutes. Add butter. Stir until butter melts. Cool slightly.
Using electric mixer, beat cream and powdered sugar in large bowl until stiff peaks form. Using serrated knife, slice off top 1/3 of biscuits. Transfer biscuit bottoms to plates. Spoon half of plum mixture over biscuits. Spoon whipped cream atop plum mixture. Spoon remaining plum mixture atop cream, dividing equally. Place biscuit tops over plum mixture. Serve immediately.

Date, Dried-Cherry and Chocolate Torte 
1 cup Deglet Noor or Medjool dates (6 oz), pitted and each cut into 6 pieces
1/2 cup Black Sphinx or Medjool dates (3 oz), pitted and each cut into 6 pieces
1 cup dried cherries (preferably tart; 6 oz)
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup boiling water
1/4 cup brandy
1 1/3 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
2 large eggs at room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla
3/4 teaspoon finely grated fresh orange zest
6 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), coarsely chopped
3/4 cup pecans (4 1/2 oz), finely chopped
Garnish: confectioners sugar
Accompaniment: brandied whipped cream

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Combine dates, cherries, and baking soda in a heatproof bowl, then stir in boiling water and brandy.
Whisk together flour, cocoa, and salt.
Beat together butter and sugar until pale and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until just combined. Beat in vanilla and zest. Add half of flour mixture and beat at low speed until just combined. Add date mixture with liquid and beat at low speed until just combined. Add remaining flour mixture and beat until just combined. Stir in chocolate and pecans.
Pour batter into a generously buttered 24-cm (9-inch) springform pan, smoothing top. Bake in middle of oven until center is slightly rounded and top of torte is cracked (edges will be dark brown), about 55 minutes. Let torte stand 5 minutes in pan on a rack. Run a sharp small knife around side of pan to loosen, then remove side. Cool torte on rack.

Crisp Anise Cookies 
1 1/2 cups unbleached all purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/3 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 large egg yolk
2 tablespoons brandy
1/2 teaspoon aniseed, toasted

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Sift flour, baking powder and salt into small bowl. Beat butter and 1/3 cup sugar in large bowl until light. Beat in egg yolk, brandy and aniseed. Add dry ingredients and beat just until smooth dough forms.
Spread remaining 2 tablespoons sugar on small plate. Roll out dough on lightly floured surface to 1/4-inch thickness. Using 2-inch cookie cutter, cut out cookies. Gather scraps, reroll on lightly floured surface and cut out more cookies. Place cookies 1 at a time on sugar on plate; transfer cookies, sugar side up, to 2 ungreased baking sheets.
Bake cookies until bottom and edges are golden, about 20 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack; cool. (Cookies can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Dome Cake Filled with Chocolate and Nut Cream 
2 tablespoons cherry liqueur
2 tablespoons orange liqueur
2 tablespoons grappa or brandy
1 10.75-ounce loaf pound cake
5 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 cups chilled whipping cream
3/4 cup powdered sugar
3/4 cup blanched slivered almonds, toasted, coarsely chopped
1/2 cup hazelnuts, toasted, husked, coarsely chopped
Unsweetened cocoa powder

Moisten large piece of cheesecloth with water; squeeze out excess. Line 1 1/2-quart bowl with cheesecloth. Mix liqueurs and grappa in small bowl. Cut pound cake crosswise into 3/8-inch-thick slices. Cut each slice diagonally in half, forming two triangles. Lay cake triangles in single layer on baking sheet; brush with liqueur mixture. Line bottom and sides of prepared bowl with cake triangles (wet sides facing in) in sunburst pattern. Reserve extra triangles for top.
Stir 2 ounces chocolate in metal bowl set over small saucepan of simmering water until chocolate melts. Cool just to room temperature. Beat cream and powdered sugar in large bowl until firm peaks form. Fold in 3 ounces chopped chocolate and nuts. Spread half of mixture over cake, covering completely and creating well in center. Fold cooled melted chocolate into remaining whipped cream mixture; spoon into center well of filling. Cover filling with remaining cake triangles (wet side down), trimming to fit if necessary. Cover with plastic. Chill at least 5 hours and up to 1 day.
Invert cake onto plate. Remove cloth. Sift cocoa powder over and serve.

Schrafft's of Boston Chewy Oatmeal Cookies 
1 1/2 cups old-fashioned or quick-cooking rolled oats (not instant oatmeal)
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/4 pound (1 stick) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup packed dark brown sugar
2 eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup whole or lowfat milk
1 cup raisins
1 cup chopped walnuts

Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Lightly grease 2 cookie sheets.
Whisk together the rolled oats, flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon, and allspice in a large bowl.
Using an electric mixer, cream the butter with the two sugars in a large bowl until smooth. Add the eggs and vanilla and beat until light and well blended. With the mixer on low speed, add the oat mixture and the milk, beating until well combined and a stiff dough forms. Stir in the raisins and nuts. (If not using immediately, refrigerate the dough for up to 12 hours.) Drop the dough by tablespoonfuls onto the prepared cookie sheets, spacing about 2 inches apart. Press the tops gently to flatten very slightly.
Bake until the edges are brown and the centers are still soft and puffy, about 11 to 14 minutes. Cool on wire racks. Store in a covered container for up to 3 days or freeze.

Chocolate Lava Cakes with Coffee Custard Sauce 
6 1/2 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
Pinch of salt
4 large egg yolks
4 tablespoons sugar
2 large egg whites
Coffee Custard Sauce
Whipped cream (optional)

Preheat oven to 425 degrees  F. Butter four 3/4-cup custard cups. Dust with flour; shake out excess. Combine chocolate, butter and salt in top of double boiler set over simmering water. Stir until chocolate is melted and mixture is smooth. Remove from over water. Cool 10 minutes.
Beat egg yolks and 3 tablespoons sugar in large bowl until thick and light, about 2 minutes. Fold in chocolate mixture. Using electric mixer fitted with clean, dry beaters, beat egg whites and 1 tablespoon sugar in medium bowl until stiff but not dry. Gently fold whites into chocolate mixture in 3 additions. Divide batter among prepared cups.
Place custard cups on baking sheet. Bake until cakes are puffed but still soft in center, about 11 minutes. Transfer baking sheet to rack; cool cakes 1 minute.
Using small knife, cut around sides of cakes to loosen. Place plates on top of cups. Invert cakes onto plates; remove cups. Spoon Coffee Custard Sauce around cakes. Top with whipped cream, if desired.

Walnut Spicecake with Lemon Glaze 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons allspice
1 1/2 teaspoons freshly grated nutmeg
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
3 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/4 cups sour cream
1 cup walnuts, toasted lightly, cooled, and chopped fine
1 cup confectioners' sugar
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/2 cup light corn syrup
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup cranberries, picked over
mint sprigs for garnish

Butter well a 3-quart (5-inch-deep) decorative cake pan. Into a bowl sift together the flour, the cinnamon, the allspice, the nutmeg, the baking soda, the baking powder, and the salt. In the bowl of an electric mixer cream together the butter and the sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, beat in the egg yolks, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in the vanilla. Beat in the flour mixture alternately with the sour cream in batches, beginning and ending with the flour mixture and beating well after each addition. In another bowl with cleaned beaters beat the egg whites until they just hold stiff peaks, fold them and the walnuts into the batter gently but thoroughly, and spoon the batter into the buttered pan, smoothing the top. Bake the cake in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 45 to 50 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean, transfer it to a rack for 10 minutes, and invert it onto the rack to cool completely. The cake may be made 1 day in advance and kept wrapped tightly in plastic wrap.
In a small bowl whisk together the sugar and the lemon juice until the glaze is smooth.
Transfer the glaze to a heavy-duty resealable plastic bag and cut a small opening with scissors in one corner of the bag. Drizzle the glaze over the cake in a circular motion and let the cake stand until the glaze is set. The cake may be glazed 6 hours in advance and kept covered loosely. Transfer the cake to a cake plate.
In a small heavy saucepan combine the corn syrup and the sugar, bring the mixture to a boil over moderate heat, stirring until the sugar is dissolved, and boil the syrup until it is a golden caramel and registers 320 degrees F. on a candy thermometer. While the syrup is boiling, oil lightly a 12-inch-square sheet of foil. Working quickly over the foil, with a fork stir the cranberries into the syrup, lift them out, and transfer them immediately to the foil, forming them into a cluster with the fork. Let the cluster cool completely. The cluster may be made 2 hours in advance (preferably not on a damp day) and kept in a cool, dry place.
Pry the cluster gently from the foil, arrange it on the cake plate, and garnish it with the mint sprig.

Nana Edie's Devil's Food Cake 
1/2 cup milk (not nonfat)
1 tablespoon distilled white vinegar
4 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 stick unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 cup water
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 cups sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 cup heavy cream
4 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 stick unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 teaspoon vanilla

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 (8- by 2-inch) round cake pans and dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Stir together milk and vinegar and set aside to “sour” (mixture will curdle). Melt chocolate and butter with water in a large metal bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water, whisking until smooth. Cool slightly. Sift together flour, baking soda, and salt. Beat sugar into chocolate mixture with an electric mixer. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in vanilla. Add flour mixture and beat on low speed just until combined. Add soured milk and beat on high speed 2 minutes.
Divide batter evenly between cake pans. Bake in middle of oven until tops of layers spring back when touched lightly and edges have just started to pull away from sides of pans, about 35 minutes. Cool layers in pans on racks 5 minutes. Run a thin knife around edges of pans, then invert layers onto racks to cool completely.
Bring sugar and cream to a boil in a heavy saucepan, stirring constantly, and simmer 10 minutes. Remove from heat and add chocolate, butter, and vanilla, stirring until smooth. Transfer to a bowl and cool to room temperature, stirring occasionally. Chill frosting, stirring frequently, until thickened and spreadable.
Brush any loose crumbs from layers and put 1 layer upside down on a serving plate. Spread with about 1 cup frosting. Place other layer on top, right side up. Frost top and sides of cake with remaining frosting.

Buttermilk Fruitcake 
1/2 cup chopped dried apricots (about 3 1/2 ounces)
1/2 cup chopped pitted prunes (about 3 3/4 ounces)
1/4 cup chopped pecans (about 1 ounce)
1/2 cup Cognac or other brandy
3 cups sifted all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups sugar
3 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 cup buttermilk
Powdered sugar

Combine apricots, prunes and pecans in small bowl. Pour Cognac over. Cover mixture and let stand at room temperature 1 hour, stirring occasionally.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch square baking pan with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom with parchment. Butter parchment. Combine flour, baking powder and baking soda in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat unsalted butter and 2 cups sugar in large bowl until fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Mix in vanilla extract. Stir dry ingredients into butter mixture alternately with buttermilk, beginning and ending with dry ingredients. Mix in fruit with soaking liquid.
Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until cake is brown and crusty and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Cool cake in pan 15 minutes. Turn cake out onto rack and cool completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap tightly and store at room temperature.) Sprinkle with powdered sugar.

Carrot-Almond Cake with Brandied Whipped Cream 
2 cups sifted all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
4 large eggs
1 cup vegetable oil
1 cup sugar
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 1/2 cups finely grated peeled carrots (about 1 pound)
1 8-ounce can crushed pineapple in syrup, drained
2 tablespoons brandy
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 teaspoons grated orange peel
1 cup sliced almonds, toasted
3/4 cup dried currants
1/4 cup orange marmalade
Brandied Whipped Cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 12-cup Bundt pan. Whisk flour, baking soda, cinnamon, baking powder and salt in medium bowl to blend. Whisk eggs, oil and both sugars in large bowl to blend. Mix carrots, pineapple, brandy, vanilla and orange peel into egg mixture, then mix in almonds and currants. Add dry ingredients and stir just to blend. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour. Cool in pan on rack 15 minutes. Turn cake out onto rack; cool completely.
Stir marmalade in heavy small saucepan over low heat until melted. Brush warm marmalade over cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and store at room temperature.) Serve cake with Brandied Whipped Cream.

Pineapple Upside-Down Cake 
1/2 medium pineapple, peeled, quartered lengthwise, and cored
3/4 stick unsalted butter
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 to 3 teaspoons ground cardamom
2 teaspoons baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 stick unsalted butter, softened
1 cup granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 tablespoon dark rum
1/2 cup unsweetened pineapple juice
2 tablespoons dark rum for sprinkling over cake
a well-seasoned 10-inch cast-iron skillet

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Cut pineapple crosswise into 3/8-inch-thick pieces. Melt butter in skillet. Add brown sugar and simmer over moderate heat, stirring, 4 minutes. Remove from heat. Arrange pineapple on top of sugar mixture in concentric circles, overlapping pieces slightly.
Sift together flour, cardamom, baking powder, and salt. Beat butter in a large bowl with an electric mixer until light and fluffy, then gradually beat in granulated sugar. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in vanilla and rum. Add half of flour mixture and beat on low speed just until blended. Beat in pineapple juice, then add remaining flour mixture, beating just until blended. (Batter may appear slightly curdled.)
Spoon batter over pineapple topping and spread evenly. Bake cake in middle of oven until golden and a tester comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Let cake stand in skillet 5 minutes. Invert a plate over skillet and invert cake onto plate (keeping plate and skillet firmly pressed together). Replace any pineapple stuck to bottom of skillet. Sprinkle rum over cake and cool on plate on a rack.
Serve cake just warm or at room temperature.

Cream Cheese Pie with Golden Raisins 
1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs
6 tablespoons ( 3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 cups milk (do not use low-fat or nonfat)
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 cup golden raisins

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 10-inch-diameter glass pie dish. Mix crumbs and melted butter in small bowl. Press crumb mixture evenly over bottom and up sides (but not onto rim) of prepared dish. Refrigerate while preparing filling.
Blend cream cheese, 1/2 cup sugar and flour in processor until smooth. Add vanilla. Gradually pour in milk and process until smooth, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl. Add eggs; process until blended. Transfer batter to prepared crust. Mix remaining 2 tablespoons sugar with cinnamon in small bowl; sprinkle over filling. Carefully place raisins atop filling (some may sink).
Bake pie until set in center, about 1 hour. Transfer to rack and cool 1 hour. Refrigerate uncovered until cold, about 2 hours; cover and chill overnight.

Golden Cake with Chocolate Sour Cream Frosting 
3 1/2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 tablespoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2 cups sugar
4 large eggs at room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla
2 cups sour cream
Chocolate sour cream frosting
Garnish: brown sugar buttercream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 2 (9- by 2-inch) round cake pans and line bottoms of each with rounds of wax or parchment paper. Butter paper and dust pans with flour, knocking out excess.
Sift together flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in vanilla. Add half of flour mixture and mix at low speed until just blended. Add sour cream, mixing until just combined, then add remaining flour mixture, mixing at low speed until batter is smooth.
Divide batter between pans, smoothing tops. Bake in middle of oven until cake is springy to the touch and a tester comes out clean, 30 to 40 minutes. Cool in pans on racks 10 minutes, then invert onto racks, remove paper, and cool completely.
Trim tops of cooled cake layers with a long serrated knife if necessary to make flat and level. Halve each layer horizontally with serrated knife to make a total of 4 layers.
Put 1 cake layer on a cake plate and spread with 3/4 cup frosting. Layer remaining cake layers using 3/4 cup frosting between each layer. Frost top and sides of cake with remaining frosting.

Lemon Crumb Cake 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup packed golden brown sugar
4 teaspoons grated lemon peel
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 cup vegetable oil
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 cup sour cream
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
Powdered Sugar

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Lightly butter and flour 8-inch square glass baking dish. Stir flour, 1 cup sugar, brown sugar, lemon peel and cinnamon in large bowl to blend. Add oil and lemon juice and mix until flour is evenly moistened and mixture forms clumps. Set aside 1 cup of mixture for topping.
Whisk sour cream, egg, vanilla, baking powder and baking soda in small bowl until well blended. Using electric mixer, add sour cream mixture to crumb mixture and beat until batter is smooth. Spread batter in prepared pan. Sprinkle reserved crumb mixture over top.
Bake until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Transfer pan to rack and cool. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with foil; Store at room temperature.)
Sift powdered sugar over top of cake. Cut into squares and serve.

Gâteau au Chocolat, Noix et Raisins Secs 
3/4 cup raisins
1 tablespoon Cointreau
1 cup walnuts, lightly toasted
2/3 cup vanilla sugar
6 ounces (180g) top-quality bittersweet chocolate such as Lindt 70 percent
8 tablespoons (125g) unsalted butter, softened
3 large eggs
the grated zest of 1 orange
1/4 cup fresh breadcrumbs
6 ounces (180g) top-quality bittersweet chocolate, preferably Lindt
8 tablespoons (125g) unsalted butter, softened

1. Soak the raisins in the Cointreau for 30 minutes.
2. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
3. Lightly butter a 9-inch cake pan. Line the bottom with parchment paper and lightly butter the paper.
4. In a food processor combine the walnuts with 1 tablespoon of sugar and process until finely ground, but not to a paste.
5. Melt the chocolate over a water bath set over medium-high heat. When melted, remove from the heat and let cool to room temperature.
6. In a large bowl cream the butter with the remaining sugar until pale yellow and fluffy. One at a time, add the eggs, beating well after each addition. One at a time, add the ground hazelnuts, the melted chocolate, the orange zest, the bread crumbs, and the raisins with any Cointreau they haven't absorbed, mixing well after each addition.
7. Turn the mixture into the prepared cake pan and bake on the center rack of the oven until the cake has puffed sightly and has a slight crust on top, about 30 minutes. Test for doneness by pressing gently on the center of the cake—it won't spring right back and a slight indentation will remain. Remove the cake from the oven and cool on a wire rack.
8. While the cake is cooling, make the glaze. Melt the chocolate with the butter, stirring occasionally in a small, heavy-bottomed saucepan over low heat. Remove from the heat when melted, and stir to blend well. Set aside to cool. Spread evenly over the top and sides of the cooled cake.

Apple Betty Squares 
3 slices firm white sandwich bread, torn into quarters
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) cold unsalted butter
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 sticks (1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons) unsalted butter
2 lb tart apples
2/3 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Grind bread to fine crumbs in a food processor. Spread in a shallow baking pan and toast in middle of oven, stirring once, until golden, about 5 minutes. Leave oven on.
Cut butter into 1/2-inch pieces, then pulse in a food processor with flour, brown sugar, and salt until it begins to form small lumps. Sprinkle base into a 13- by 9-inch baking pan and press evenly onto bottom. Bake in middle of oven until golden, about 20 minutes.
Melt butter and keep warm. Peel, quarter, and core apples and thinly slice quarters crosswise. Stir together sugar and flour in a small bowl.
Sprinkle half of sugar mixture over hot shortbread, then top with apples and sprinkle with remaining sugar mixture. Top with bread crumbs and drizzle all of butter over them.
Bake in upper third of oven, pressing down on filling with a metal spatula halfway through baking, until apples are very tender and bread crumbs are golden, 50 minutes to 1 hour total. Cool 20 minutes in pan on a rack.

Ginger Cake 
3 cups all-purpose flour
4 teaspoons ground ginger
2 teaspoons cinnamon
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup packed light brown sugar
1 cup blackstrap molasses*
1 cup boiling-hot water
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 large eggs, lightly beaten
Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 9-inch springform pan.
Whisk together flour, ginger, and cinnamon in a medium bowl until blended.
Beat together butter and brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until pale and fluffy, about 5 minutes.
Whisk together molasses and boiling water in another large (at least 2-quart) bowl, then whisk in baking soda (mixture will bubble up and expand).
Add flour and molasses mixtures alternately to butter mixture in 3 batches, mixing at medium speed until incorporated. Beat in eggs until smooth. (Batter will be thin.)
Pour batter into springform pan and bake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out clean, 55 to 65 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 10 minutes, then remove side of pan and continue to cool cake on rack at least 30 minutes more. Serve warm.
*Available at natural foods shops.

Cream Cheese Pound Cake 
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
3 cups sugar
1 teaspoon salt
6 large eggs, room temperature
4 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 cups sifted all purpose flour

Butter and flour 12-cup Bundt pan. Using electric mixer, beat butter and cream cheese in large bowl until fluffy, about 4 minutes. Add sugar and salt; beat 10 minutes, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until blended after each addition. Beat in vanilla. Beat in flour at low speed until batter is smooth (do not overbeat). Transfer batter to pan.
Place pan in cold oven. Set temperature at 200 degrees F; bake 20 minutes. Increase temperature to 250 degrees F; bake 20 minutes. Increase to 275 degrees F; bake 10 minutes. Increase to 300 degrees F; bake cake until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 1 hour longer. Cool cake in pan on rack 15 minutes. Turn cake out onto rack; cool completely. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Wrap; store at room temperature.)

German Apple Cake (Versunkener Apfelkuchen) 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon double-acting baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter or margarine, softened
1 3/4 cups sugar
3 large eggs, separated
1/2 cup milk
8 medium (about 3 pounds) cooking apples, such as Golden Delicious, Granny Smith, Gravenstein, Greening, Jonathan, Macoun, Pippin, Starr, Winesap, Yellow Transparent, or any combination, cored and diced (peeling is optional)
1 cup confectioners' sugar, or 1/2 cup confectioners' sugar and 1/2 cup light brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla or almond extract
1 to 2 tablespoons milk or water

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a kugelhopf or 10-inch Bundt pan.
2. Sift together the flour, baking powder, and salt. Beat the butter until smooth, about 1 minute. Gradually add the sugar and beat until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Beat in the egg yolks, one at a time. Stir in the flour mixture and milk.
3. Beat the egg whites on low speed until foamy, about 30 seconds. Increase the speed to high and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold one-fourth of the whites into the batter, then gently fold in the remaining whites.
4. Pour half of the batter into the prepared pan. Spread with half of the apples. Top with the remaining batter, then the remaining apples.
5. Bake until golden brown, 50 to 60 minutes. Let cool in the pan for 20 minutes, then transfer to a rack and let cool completely.
6. To make the glaze if using: Combine all the glaze ingredients, stirring until smooth and of pouring consistency. Drizzle over the cake and let stand until set.

Coconut Macaroons 
1 14-ounce package sweetened flaked coconut
1 14-ounce can sweetened condensed milk
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon salt

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line 2 baking sheets with parchment paper. Combine flaked coconut, sweetened condensed milk and vanilla extract in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat egg whites and salt in medium bowl to medium-firm peaks. Fold 1/3 of egg whites into coconut mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining egg whites. Drop half of coconut mixture by level tablespoonfuls onto prepared baking sheets, spacing 2 inches apart. Top each with a second level tablespoonful coconut mixture. Bake until golden, about 25 minutes. Cool macaroons on parchment paper. Slide metal spatula under macaroons to remove. (Macaroons can be prepared 1 day ahead. Store in single layer in airtight container at room temperature.)

Flourless Chocolate Cake with Coffee Liqueur 
1 pound semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
1/4 cup coffee liqueur
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
7 large eggs, room temperature
1 cup sugar
Powdered sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pan with parchment paper. Stir chocolate, butter, coffee liqueur, and vanilla in heavy large saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth. Cool to lukewarm. Using electric mixer, beat eggs and 1 cup sugar in large bowl until thick and pale, and slowly dissolving ribbon forms when beaters are lifted, about 6 minutes. Fold 1/3 of egg mixture into lukewarm chocolate mixture. Fold remaining egg mixture into chocolate mixture.
Place prepared pan on baking sheet. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out with moist crumbs attached, about 55 minutes. Cool 5 minutes. Gently press down edges of cake. Cool completely in pan. (Cake can be prepared up to 1 day ahead. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before continuing.)
Run knife around pan sides to loosen cake. Remove sides of pan; transfer cake to platter. Remove parchment paper. Sprinkle cake with powdered sugar and serve.

Coconut Bread 
4 cups sweetened flaked coconut (10 ounces)
2 cups self-rising flour (not cake flour)
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
2 large eggs

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour a 9- by 5- by 3-inch loaf pan, knocking out excess flour.
Spread 3 cups coconut in a large shallow baking pan (1 inch deep) and toast in middle of oven, stirring occasionally, until evenly golden brown, 20 to 25 minutes. (Watch flakes carefully; edges burn quickly.) Cool completely in pan on a rack, about 15 minutes, then grind in a food processor to a coarse meal, about 40 seconds (you will have about 1 1/4 cups). Leave oven on.
Stir together self-rising flour, ground coconut, and remaining cup (untoasted) coconut in a large bowl. Beat together butter and sugar in another bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale and creamy, 1 to 2 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Whisk 1 cup water into flour mixture, then add egg mixture, whisking just until well blended.
Pour batter into loaf pan, smoothing top with a spatula, and bake in middle of oven until a wooden skewer inserted in center comes out clean and top is evenly brown, 1 hour to 1 hour and 10 minutes. Cool bread to warm in pan on a rack, 10 to 15 minutes, then turn out of pan and set right side up on rack to cool completely, about 2 hours more. Cut into 1-inch-thick slices.

Chocolate Griddle Cakes with Chocolate Sauce 
1 cup heavy cream
7 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), finely chopped
1/2 cup Dutch-process unsweetened cocoa powder
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 whole large eggs
1 large egg yolk
3/4 cup well-shaken buttermilk
1/4 cup vegetable oil
1 teaspoon vanilla
Unsalted butter for greasing griddle

Bring cream to a boil in a 1-quart saucepan, then pour hot cream over chocolate in a bowl, gently whisking until smooth. Keep warm or at room temperature.
Sift together cocoa, flour, sugar, baking soda, and salt into a large bowl, then whisk in eggs, yolk, buttermilk, oil, and vanilla until combined well.
Heat a griddle or nonstick skillet over moderately low heat and lightly coat with butter.
Working in batches of 2 or 3, pour 1/4 cup batter per cake onto hot griddle and cook until bubbles appear on surface, 1 to 2 minutes. Flip cakes with a large spatula and cook until tops spring back when pressed gently, about 1 minute more. Transfer to a plate and loosely cover with foil to keep warm. Add 1/2 teaspoon butter to griddle between batches.
Serve cakes in stacks, topped with chocolate sauce.

Plum Torte 
3/4 cup PLUS 1 or 2 tablespoons sugar
8 tablespoons (1 stick) unsalted butter
1 cup unbleached all-purpose flour, sifted
1 teaspoon baking powder
2 eggs
Pinch salt
24 halves pitted Italian (aka prune or purple) plums
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon, or more
Vanilla ice cream, optional

1. Arrange a rack in the lower third of the oven. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F.
2. In an electric mixer, cream the 3/4 cup sugar and butter. Add the flour, baking powder, eggs, and salt and beat to mix well. Place in a 9- or 10-inch ungreased springform pan. Cover the top with the plums, skin side down. Mix the cinnamon with the remaining 1 or 2 tablespoons of sugar and sprinkle over the top.
3. Bake for 40 to 50 minutes, until the center tests done with a toothpick. Remove and cool to room temperature or serve warm. Serve plain or with vanilla ice cream.

Sweet-Potato Layer Cake with Orange-Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 pounds tan-skinned sweet potatoes (about 3 medium)
3 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1 cup vegetable oil
1 cup sugar
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
4 large eggs
2/3 cup plus 1/4 cup chopped walnuts, toasted
2/3 cup plus 1/4 cup dried cranberries
1 8-ounce package cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
31/4 cups powdered sugar, sifted
2 tablespoons frozen orange juice concentrate, thawed
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup sliced candied orange peel
3 tablespoons sugar

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Pierce potatoes with fork; place on small baking sheet. Roast potatoes until soft, about 1 hour. Cool, peel, and mash potatoes. Measure 2 cups mashed potatoes; cool to lukewarm (reserve any remaining potatoes for another use). Reduce oven temperature to 350 degrees F.
Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides; line pans with parchment. Sift flour and next 6 ingredients into medium bowl. Combine oil, 1 cup sugar, and brown sugar in large bowl; whisk until smooth. Whisk in eggs 1 at a time, then mashed sweet potatoes. Whisk in flour mixture in 3 additions. Stir in 2/3 cup walnuts and 2/3 cup cranberries. Divide batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cakes completely in pans on racks.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in powdered sugar, scraping down bowl often. Beat in orange juice concentrate and vanilla.
Cut around pan sides; turn out cakes. Peel off parchment. Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on platter. Spread 3/4 cup frosting over. Top with second cake layer, flat side down. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Combine orange peel, 3 tablespoons sugar, remaining 1/4 cup walnuts, and 1/4 cup cranberries in small bowl. Stir to coat with sugar. Transfer to sieve; sift off excess sugar. Sprinkle fruit and nut mixture decoratively atop cake. Chill until frosting sets, at least 2 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; keep chilled. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.)

Three Milk Cake with Rompope 
1 1/2 cups rompope
1 cup evaporated milk
1 cup sweetened condensed milk
1 cup whipping cream
5 large eggs
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup cake flour
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted, cooled to lukewarm
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
3 tablespoons sugar
1 1-pint basket strawberries, halved
Fresh mint sprigs (optional)
1 1-pint basket strawberries, hulled, sliced

Whisk all ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Pour half of liquid into heavy large saucepan. Bring to boil. Reduce heat to medium and boil gently until mixture is reduced to 1 1/4 cups, stirring frequently, about 17 minutes. Whisk in remaining half of liquid. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Rewarm just until lukewarm before using.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 8-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pan with parchment paper; butter and flour parchment. Whisk eggs and sugar to blend in large bowl. Set bowl over saucepan of simmering water (do not allow bottom of bowl to touch water). Using electric mixer, beat mixture constantly until thick, pale yellow, and tripled in volume, about 9 minutes. Remove bowl from over water. Continue to beat mixture until cool, about 6 minutes. Sift flour over egg mixture in 3 additions, gently folding in each addition. Transfer 1 cup batter to small bowl; fold in melted butter in 3 additions. Gently fold into batter in large bowl, being careful not to deflate batter. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until top is deep golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cake in pan 10 minutes. Turn cake out onto deep platter at least 2 inches larger than cake. Remove parchment paper. Using wooden skewer, pierce cake all over top, spacing piercings 1/2 inch apart and pressing skewer down to bottom of cake.
Gradually pour half of lukewarm rompope syrup over top of hot cake, spreading over cake with spatula and allowing rompope syrup to soak into cake before adding more. Invert cake onto another large deep platter. Pierce cake all over top, spacing piercings 1/2 inch apart and pressing skewer down to bottom of cake. Gradually pour remaining rompope syrup over cake, spreading with spatula and allowing syrup to soak in before adding more. Let cake stand at room temperature until cooled completely, about 2 hours, occasionally spooning up any rompope syrup that collects on bottom of platter and drizzling syrup over cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
Using electric mixer, beat cream and sugar in large bowl until peaks form. Spread frosting over cake. (Can be made 4 hours ahead. Cover and chill.) Garnish with halved berries and mint, if desired. Serve with sliced berries.

Orange Almond Lace Cookies 
2/3 cup sliced almonds
1/2 cup fresh orange juice
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
2 teaspoons freshly grated orange zest
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons cider vinegar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. In a baking pan toast almonds in one layer in middle of oven until golden, about 10 minutes.
In a 1- to 1 1/2-quart heavy saucepan bring orange juice, sugar, and butter to a boil over moderate heat, stirring, and boil about 5 minutes or until mixture is thick and bubbles are tan-colored. Remove pan from heat and stir in almonds, zest, flour, vinegar, and a pinch salt until mixture is combined well. Cool dough to room temperature. Form and bake cookies as directed below.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Roll level 1/2-teaspoons dough into balls and arrange 4 inches apart on baking sheets. Bake cookies in batches in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, 10 minutes, or until cookies are flat and golden. Transfer parchment with cookies to racks to cool. Cool baking sheets and line with fresh parchment between batches.

Hungarian Seven-Layer Cake (Dobostorte) 
1 1/2 cups sugar
3/4 cup water
6 large egg yolks
2 cups (4 sticks) unsalted butter or margarine, softened
1/2 cup vegetable shortening
10 ounces bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, melted and cooled, or 2/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Pinch of salt
2 to 3 tablespoons rum or kirsch (optional)
6 large eggs
1 1/4 cups plus 1 tablespoon (9 ounces) sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups (7 1/2 ounces) all-purpose flour, measured by dip-and-sweep method
1 1/2 cups sugar
3/4 cup water
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar

1. To make the buttercream: Stir the sugar and water in a small saucepan over low heat until the sugar dissolves, about 5 minutes. Increase the heat to medium and boil, without stirring, until the syrup reaches the soft-ball stage, or 250 degrees F on a candy thermometer, about 10 minutes.
2. Meanwhile, beat the egg yolks until pale and thick, about 4 minutes. In a slow, steady stream, pour the hot syrup into the eggs, beating continuously as you pour. (Do not let the syrup touch the beaters or it will spin into threads.) Continue beating until the mixture thickens and cools to room temperature, about 10 minutes.
3. Beat in the butter and shortening, 2 tablespoons at a time, until absorbed. Gradually beat in the chocolate. Blend in the vanilla, salt, and rum if using. Do not add the flavoring too quickly or the buttercream might curdle. Chill until of spreading consistency, at least 2 hours or up to 1 week. If the buttercream firms too much, return to room temperature before using, about 1 hour.
4. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease the bottoms of several 9-inch round cake pans and dust with flour, tapping out the excess. Or grease and flour several large baking sheets and, using a 9-inch saucepan lid or springform pan, mark 9-inch circles on the sheets.
5. To make the batter: Beat the eggs and sugar until thick and creamy, 5 to 10 minutes. Add the vanilla and salt. Sift the flour over the top and carefully fold it in.
6. Spread about 1/4 cup of the batter evenly over the bottom of the prepared pans or over each circle on the baking sheets.
7. Bake until the edges begin to color, 5 to 7 minutes. Loosen with a spatula, invert onto a rack, and let cool. Wipe the pans, regrease, dust with flour, and repeat until there are 7 or 8 matching layers.
8. To make the caramel if using: Stir all the caramel ingredients in a small saucepan over low heat until the sugar dissolves, about 5 minutes. Stop stirring, increase the heat to medium, and cook, swirling the pan occasionally, until the syrup turns a deep amber color. Do not burn.
9. Using a lightly oiled metal spatula, spread all of the caramel evenly over one of the cake layers. Let set slightly (do not let it harden), then use an oiled knife to cut just the caramel into 8 to 10 wedges (indicating where the cake will be sliced).
10.To assemble: Place a cake layer on a serving plate, spread with 1/8-inch thick layer of buttercream, then place a second layer on top. Repeat layering the buttercream and cake layers. Cover the top of the cake with buttercream. If using the caramel layer, place on top of the cake. Cover the sides of the cake with buttercream. Chill. Store in the refrigerator for up to 1 day or in the freezer. Let stand at room temperature for at least 30 minutes before serving.
Oblong Layer Cake: Divide the batter between two 15 1/2-by-10 1/2-inch jelly roll pans and bake. After cooling the cakes, cut each lengthwise into 3 equal pieces to make a 6-layer cake.

Ginger Molasses Lace Cookies 
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter
2 tablespoons unsulfured molasses
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon ground ginger

In a 1- to 1 1/2-quart heavy saucepan bring sugar, butter, molasses, and lemon juice to a boil over moderate heat, stirring, and boil 1 minute. Remove pan from heat and stir in flour, ginger, and a pinch salt until mixture is smooth. Cool dough to room temperature. Form and bake cookies as directed below.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F and line 2 large baking sheets with parchment paper.
Roll level 1/2-teaspoons dough into balls and arrange 4 inches apart on baking sheets. Bake cookies in batches in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, 10 minutes, or until cookies are flat and golden. Transfer parchment with cookies to racks to cool. Cool baking sheets and line with fresh parchment between batches.

Meringue Ice-Cream Cake with Strawberries Remington 
7 large egg whites
1 teaspoon cream of tartar
2 1/2 cups granulated sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
3 pints strawberries (about 2 pounds)
1/3 cup granulated sugar
1 cup well-chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons confectioners' sugar
1 quart vanilla ice cream
Garnish: trimmed whole strawberries

Do not preheat oven. Butter two 10-inch springform pans.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat whites with cream of tartar and a pinch salt until they just hold soft peaks. Add granulated sugar a little at a time, beating, and beat meringue until it is very glossy and holds soft peaks. Fold in vanilla and divide meringue between springform pans, smoothing tops. Put pans in upper and lower thirds of oven and set oven to 275 degrees F. Bake meringue layers, switching position of pans halfway through baking, 45 minutes total. Cool meringue layers in pans on racks and carefully remove sides of pans. Meringue will be crisp on the outside and marshmallowy on the inside. Meringue layers may be made 1 day ahead and kept in an airtight container at room temperature.
Trim strawberries and quarter lengthwise. In a bowl sprinkle strawberries with granulated sugar and toss to coat. With a potato masher gently crush strawberries until they begin to release their juices, being careful not to crush them to a pulp. Let strawberry sauce stand at room temperature until more juices are released, no more than 1 hour (otherwise sauce will be too liquid). In a bowl beat cream with confectioners’ sugar until it just holds stiff peaks and chill while assembling cake. Slightly soften vanilla ice cream. Loosen meringue layers from pan bottoms and put 1 layer on a large cake plate. Working quickly, spread ice cream onto meringue on plate and top with remaining meringue layer. Spread whipped cream decoratively on top of cake and with a slotted spoon transfer 1 spoonful of strawberries from sauce onto center of top of cake.
Garnish outer edge of top of cake with whole strawberries and serve cake immediately with remaining strawberry sauce on the side.

Orange Cheesecake with Caramel-Orange Sauce 
11 whole graham crackers, broken
1/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/3 cups sugar
6 large eggs
3 tablespoons orange liqueur
5 teaspoons finely grated orange peel
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Caramel-Orange Sauce

Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 450 degrees F. Grind crackers and sugar in processor until fine crumbs form. Add butter; process until crumbs are slightly moist. Press onto bottom (not sides) of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 1/2-inch-high sides. Bake until set, about 12 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool completely. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until smooth. Add eggs, liqueur, orange peel and vanilla. Beat just until blended. Pour filling into crust-lined pan.
Bake cake 15 minutes. Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F. Bake until cake is puffed, outer 2-inch edge is set and center moves just slightly when shaken, about 55 minutes longer. Transfer cake to rack. Run knife around pan sides to loosen; cool. Chill cheesecake overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover; keep chilled.)
Serve with Caramel-Orange Sauce.

Lemon Cheesecake with Strawberries and Port Glaze 
2 cups graham cracker crumbs
1/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 3/4 cups sugar
3 tablespoons grated lemon peel
1 cup sour cream
1/4 cup whipping cream
1/3 cup fresh lemon juice
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
4 large eggs, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sour cream
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 750-ml bottle tawny Port
1/2 cup sugar
3 tablespoons raspberry vinegar
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
8 large strawberries, unhulled, halved through stem

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Blend graham cracker crumbs and sugar in processor. With machine running, add melted butter and lemon juice; blend until crumbs are evenly moistened. Press crumb mixture onto bottom and 2 inches up sides of 10-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Freeze crust 15 minutes. Bake crust until set, about 10 minutes. Cool completely. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat first 3 ingredients in large bowl until fluffy and smooth, stopping occasionally to scrape down sides of bowl. Add sour cream, whipping cream, lemon juice, and vanilla and beat just to blend, stopping occasionally to scrape down sides of bowl. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just to blend after each addition.
Pour filling into crust (filling will just fill crust). Place springform pan on rimmed baking sheet. Bake cheesecake until top appears set, puffed, and golden at edges but still moves slightly all over when shaken, about 55 minutes. Cool cake 5 minutes.
Mix sour cream, sugar, and vanilla in medium bowl.
Spoon topping over hot cake, spreading to edge of pan and covering completely. Bake 10 minutes. Transfer cake to rack; cool 10 minutes. Run sharp knife around top 1/2-inch edge of cake to loosen. Place hot cheesecake directly in refrigerator; chill uncovered overnight.
Stir Port, sugar, and vinegar in heavy large saucepan over medium-high heat until sugar dissolves. Boil until liquid is reduced to 3/4 cup, stirring occasionally, about 25 minutes. Cool. Mix in lemon peel. (Cake and syrup can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover cake and keep refrigerated. Cover syrup and let stand at room temperature.)
Starting below stem end of each berry half, make 3 lengthwise slits through tip. Fan berries and place around edge of cake. (Can be made 8 hours ahead. Cover; chill.)
Release pan sides. Slice cake and drizzle with Port syrup. Serve syrup alongside.

Ginger-Pecan Roulade with Honey-Glazed Pecans 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted, plus additional for brushing pan
3/4 cup pecans, toasted and cooled
1/4 cup cake flour (not self-rising) plus additional for dusting
1 tablespoon unsweetened cocoa powder plus additional for dusting
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon salt
5 large eggs, separated
1/3 cup packed dark brown sugar
1/3 cup unsulfured molasses
1 1/4 cups heavy cream
1 tablespoon granulated sugar plus additional for sprinkling
1/2 cup chopped crystallized ginger
Honey-glazed pecans

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line bottom and sides of a 15- by 10- by 1-inch jelly-roll pan with foil, dull side up, and brush with melted butter. Dust pan with flour, knocking out excess.
Finely grind pecans with cake flour, cocoa, spices, and salt in a food processor. Beat together yolks, brown sugar, and molasses with an electric mixer at high speed until mixture is very thick and pale brown and forms a ribbon when beater is lifted, about 2 minutes with a standing model and 5 minutes with a hand-held.
Fold in pecan mixture gently but thoroughly. Transfer 1 cup batter to another bowl and fold in 1/4 cup melted butter, then fold butter mixture into remaining batter gently but thoroughly.
Beat whites with cleaned beaters in another bowl until they just hold soft peaks (do not overbeat). Stir one fourth of whites into batter to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Spread batter evenly in jelly-roll pan and bake in middle of oven until set and firm to the touch, about 12 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack and cover with plastic wrap.
Beat cream with sugar until it just holds stiff peaks, then fold in 6 tablespoons crystallized ginger.
Put an 18-inch length of foil on a work surface and sprinkle with some sugar. Invert cake onto foil sheet and gently peel off foil from top. Spoon three fourths of whipped cream over cake, leaving a 1/2-inch border around edges.
Beginning with a short side and using foil as an aid, roll up cake, jelly-roll fashion, and transfer, seam side down, to a platter.
Just before serving, spoon remaining whipped cream on top of roulade and sprinkle with honey-glazed pecans and remaining crystallized ginger.

Mother Berta's Carrot Cake 
3 medium-sized carrots, peeled
2 cups all-purpose flour
2 cups sugar
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 cup corn oil
3 eggs, lightly beaten
2 teaspoons vanilla
1 cup chopped walnuts
1 cup shredded coconut (sweetened variety)
3/4 cup canned crushed pineapple, drained
4 ounces cream cheese, softened
3 tablespoons butter, softened
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar, sifted
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 tablespoon lemon juice

1. Cut 2 carrots into 1-inch dice; place in a saucepan, cover with water and simmer until tender, about 10 minutes. Drain and puree in a food processor or blender. Set aside.
2. Grate the remaining carrot; reserve.
3. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a 9x13-inch baking pan. Line the bottom with waxed paper and grease the paper.
4. Sift the flour, sugar, baking soda and cinnamon into a large bowl. Add the oil, eggs and vanilla; beat well. Fold in the carrot puree, grated carrot, walnuts, coconut and pineapple.
5. Pour the batter into the prepared pan. Bake until a toothpick inserted in the center comes out clean, about 1 hour.
6. Cool the cake in the pan for 10 minutes before unmolding it onto a rack, then let the cake cool completely.
7. Prepare the frosting: Mix the cream cheese and butter together in a bowl. Slowly add the confectioners' sugar. Stir in the vanilla and lemon juice. Frost the cake.

Coconut Shortbread Cookies 
1 cup unsweetened shredded coconut* (about 3 ounces)
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
1 1/4 teaspoons coarse kosher salt
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 2/3 cups all purpose flour

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Spread coconut on rimmed baking sheet. Bake until coconut is light golden, stirring occasionally, about 8 minutes. Cool completely.
Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until well blended. Mix in salt and vanilla. Beat in flour in 2 additions. Stir in toasted coconut. Gather dough together; divide in half. Flatten each half into disk; wrap each in plastic and chill at least 1 hour. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Keep chilled. Soften slightly at room temperature before rolling out.)
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Roll out 1 dough disk on lightly floured work surface to scant 1/4-inch thickness. Using 1 3/4- to 2-inch-diameter cookie cutters, cut dough into rounds. Transfer cookies to prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Gather dough scraps and reroll; cut out additional cookies. Repeat procedure with remaining dough disk until all of dough is used.
Bake cookies until light golden, about 20 minutes. Cool on baking sheets 10 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. (Can be made ahead. Store airtight at room temperature up to 1 week.)
*Available at natural foods stores and some supermarkets.

Toasted-Hazelnut Cake 
1 1/2 cups hazelnuts (8 ounces), toasted
1/4 cup matzo cake meal
1 cup sugar
4 large eggs, separated, at room temperature
1 teaspoon finely grated fresh lemon zest
1/4 teaspoon salt
Warm Sweet Chocolate Glaze

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and grease a 9-inch springform pan.
Rub hot toasted nuts in a kitchen towel to remove some of skins, then cool completely.
Pulse nuts, cake meal, and 1/4 cup sugar in a food processor until nuts are very finely chopped, being careful not to process to a paste.
Beat yolks and 1/2 cup sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer on high speed until pale and very thick. Stir in zest.
Beat whites with salt in another bowl with cleaned beaters on high speed until soft peaks form. Gradually beat in remaining 1/4 cup sugar and beat until whites just hold stiff, glossy peaks.
In 3 batches, alternately fold nut mixture and whites into yolk mixture.
Spoon batter into pan and smooth top.
Bake cake in middle of oven until golden and a tester comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 3 minutes, then loosen edge with a knife and remove side of pan. Cool completely. (Cake will sink slightly in center.)
Invert cake onto a rack set over a shallow baking pan. Carefully loosen bottom of pan and remove. Pour warm glaze over cake, allowing it to drip down sides, and spread to coat evenly. Chill until glaze is set, about 5 minutes.

Spotted Dick 
1/2 cup mixed currants and golden raisins or other assorted dried fruit
1/2 teaspoon finely grated fresh lemon zest
Suet pastry dough
Custard sauce
1-quart ceramic pudding mold

Fill a large heavy pot (at least 8 inches across by 6 inches deep, with a tight-fitting lid) with 1 1/2 inches water. Make a platform for pudding by setting metal cookie cutters or egg-poaching rings in bottom of pot. Knead fruit and zest into dough and form dough into a ball. Put into well-buttered pudding mold and flatten top. Top dough with a round of buttered wax paper, buttered side down, and cover top of mold with heavy-duty foil, crimping tightly around edge.
Bring water in pot to a boil and set mold on platform. Steam pudding, covered, over simmering water 1 1/2 to 2 hours (add more boiling water to pot if necessary), or until golden and puffed. Transfer pudding in mold to a rack and let stand 5 minutes. Discard foil and wax paper and run a thin knife around edge of pudding. Invert a plate over mold, then invert pudding onto plate. Serve immediately with custard sauce.

Ashkenazic Sour Cream Coffee Cake (Smeteneh Küchen) 
1/2 cup granulated or brown sugar, or 1/4 cup each
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg or cloves (optional)
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter or margarine, softened
1/2 cup coarsely chopped walnuts or pecans, grated coconut, golden raisins, or chocolate chips, or 1 cup any combination (optional)
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter or margarine, softened
1 cup granulated or brown sugar or 1/2 cup each
4 large egg yolks, or 3 large eggs
1 cup (8 ounces) sour cream or plain yogurt
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest (optional)
1 cup confectioners' sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla or almond extract
1 to 2 tablespoons milk or water

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (325 degrees F if using a glass pan). Grease one 9-inch square pan,9-inch Bundt or tube pan, or 9-inch springform pan. Line with parchment or waxed paper, grease again, and dust with flour.
2. To make the streusel: Combine the sugar, flour, cinnamon, salt, and nutmeg if using. Cut in the butter to resemble coarse crumbs. If desired, stir in the nuts.
3. To make the batter: Sift together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. In a large bowl, beat the butter until smooth, about 1 minute. Gradually add the sugar and beat until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Beat in the egg yolks, one at a time. Blend in the sour cream, vanilla, and zest if using. Stir in the flour mixture.
4. Spread half of the batter in the prepared pan. Sprinkle with half of the streusel. Carefully cover with the remaining batter and sprinkle with the remaining streusel.
5. Bake unitl the cake is golden and pulls away from the sides of the pan, about 50 minutes. Set on a rack and let cool in the pan for at least 15 minutes. Serve warm or at room temperature. Wrap the kuchen in plastic and store at room temperature for up to 2 days or in the freezer for up to 3 months.
6. To make the glaze if using: Combine all the glaze ingredients, stirring until smooth and of pouring consistency. Drizzle over the cake and let stand until set.
When baking and storing a cake containing acidic ingredients such as sour cream in an aluminum pan, line the bottom with parchment paper to prevent the juices from reacting with the aluminum and creating a metallic flavor.
Spread all the batter in a 13-by-9-inch pan, sprinkle with all of the topping, and bake for 30 to 35 minutes.
After adding the middle layer of streusel, top with 1 cup peeled, cored, and thinkly sliced cooking apples, 1 cup peeled, pitted, and sliced peaches, or 1 cup pitted cherries, blueberries, blackberries, or raspberries.
Combine 8 ounces softened cream chees, 1/4 cup sugar, 1 large egg, and 1 teaspoon vanilla extract. Spread over the top of the batter, leaving a 1-inch border on all sides. If desired, spread 1/2 cup melted blueberry, cherry, raspberry, or strawberry preserves or pie filling over the cheese mixture. Sprinkle with the streusel.

Triple-Chocolate Cake with Chocolate-Peppermint Filling 
8 ounces imported milk chocolate (such as Lindt), finely chopped
1/2 cup whipping cream
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
1/2 teaspoon peppermint extract
1 cup sifted all purpose flour
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 large eggs
1/2 cup buttermilk
1 1/2 cups miniature semisweet chocolate chips
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
3/4 teaspoon peppermint extract
12 whole red-and-white-striped hard peppermint candies, chopped
Fresh mint leaves

Place chocolate in medium bowl. Bring cream and corn syrup to simmer in small saucepan. Pour hot mixture over chocolate; add extract and let stand 1 minute. Whisk until mixture is smooth. Let filling stand at room temperature while cake is baking and cooling.
Position rack in lowest third of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom with parchment paper. Butter parchment. Dust pan with flour. Whisk first 5 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Gradually beat in both sugars, then vanilla. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk in 2 additions each. Mix in chocolate chips.
Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 5 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 5 minutes. Turn out cake onto rack. Peel off parchment. Cool completely.
Using electric mixer, beat filling until fluffy and lightened in color, about 30 seconds. Using serrated knife, cut cake horizontally in half. Place 1 layer, cut side up, on rack set over baking sheet. Spread filling over. Top with second layer, cut side down. Chill filled cake 20 minutes.
Stir chocolate, butter, and corn syrup in heavy small saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth. Mix in extract. Cool glaze until just lukewarm but still pourable, stirring occasionally, about 20 minutes.
Pour 1/2 cup glaze over center of cake. Spread over top and sides of cake. Chill until glaze sets, about 15 minutes. Pour remaining glaze over center of cake, then spread quickly over top and sides. Chill until glaze sets, about 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; chill. Before continuing, let stand at room temperature until softened, about 4 hours.)
Sprinkle candies around top edge of cake. Garnish with fresh mint leaves.

Applesauce Spice Tea Cake 
10-inch (12-cup capacity) bundt-style pan
baking sheet for toasting walnuts
sharp, heavy knife for chopping walnuts
mesh sieve
fork
hand-held electric mixer
cake tester
wire rack
mixing spoon
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 1/3 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 1/4 teaspoons ground allspice
1 1/4 teaspoons ground nutmeg
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 extra-large eggs, at room temperature
1 2/3 cups packed dark brown sugar
1 cup vegetable oil
1 tablespoon pure vanilla extract
2 cups unsweetened applesauce
1 1/2 cup walnuts, toasted and coarsely chopped

Baking time: 55 minutes
1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees . with a rack in the center of the oven. Coat the sides and center tube of the pan with the butter. Toss in the flour and shake the pan to coat the tube surface and sides. Knock out the excess flour. Set aside.
2. Place a mesh sieve over a medium mixing bowl and add the cake flour, baking powder, baking soda, cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, ginger, and salt. Shake the contents into the bowl and set aside.
3. Break the eggs into a large mixing bowl. Stir them briefly with a fork to break them up slightly, then add the dark brown sugar. With the mixer on high speed, beat the eggs with the sugar until the mixture is very thick, about 6 minutes. Move the beaters around the bowl and scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula several times while mixing. Reduce the mixer speed to medium and beat in the oil and vanilla. Beat until the mixture is smooth, about 2 minutes. Reduce the mixer speed to low and beat in the flour mixture alternately with the applesauce, beginning and ending with the flour mixture. Fold in the walnuts with a rubber spatula. Scrape the batter into the prepared pan and smooth the top with a rubber spatula.
4. Bake for 55 minutes, or until a cake tester inserted into the center of the cake comes out clean. Transfer the pan to a wire rack to cool for 10 minutes, then invert the cake onto the rack. Remove the pan and let the cake cool completely.
5. The baked cake can be stored at room temperature, wrapped in plastic wrap, for up to 2 days, or refrigerated for up to 1 week. It may also be frozen for up to 3 months. Wrap the cooled cake securely in plastic wrap, then place it in a freezer-strength recloseable jumbo-size plastic bag. Label the bag with a waterproof marker and freeze. Defrost the cake, in its wrapping, overnight in the refrigerator or at room temperature for 3 to 4 hours.

Russian Tea Cakes 
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) butter, room temperature
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup finely chopped husked hazelnuts, toasted
Powdered sugar

Sift flour and salt together. Using electric mixer, cream butter in large bowl until light. Gradually add 1/2 cup sugar and beat until fluffy. Add vanilla. Mix in dry ingredients in 3 batches. Mix in hazelnuts. Refrigerate at least 1 hour or up to 12 hours.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Form dough into 1-inch balls. Space 1 inch apart on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake until just firm to touch, about 15 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool slightly. Roll in powdered sugar. Cool completely. Roll cookies in powdered sugar again. Store in airtight container.

Chocolate Stout Cake 
2 cups stout (such as Guinness)
2 cups (4 sticks) unsalted butter
1 1/2 cups unsweetened cocoa powder (preferably Dutch-process)
4 cups all purpose flour
4 cups sugar
1 tablespoon baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
4 large eggs
1 1/3 cups sour cream
2 cups whipping cream
1 pound bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter three 8-inch round cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line with parchment paper. Butter paper. Bring 2 cups stout and 2 cups butter to simmer in heavy large saucepan over medium heat. Add cocoa powder and whisk until mixture is smooth. Cool slightly.
Whisk flour, sugar, baking soda, and 1 1/2 teaspoons salt in large bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat eggs and sour cream in another large bowl to blend. Add stout-chocolate mixture to egg mixture and beat just to combine. Add flour mixture and beat briefly on slow speed. Using rubber spatula, fold batter until completely combined. Divide batter equally among prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center of cakes comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Transfer cakes to rack; cool 10 minutes. Turn cakes out onto rack and cool completely.
Bring cream to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Remove from heat. Add chopped chocolate and whisk until melted and smooth. Refrigerate until icing is spreadable, stirring frequently, about 2 hours.
Place 1 cake layer on plate. Spread 2/3 cup icing over. Top with second cake layer. Spread 2/3 cup icing over. Top with third cake layer. Spread remaining icing over top and sides of cake.

Ginger Cake with Crystallized Ginger Frosting 
2 1/2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground ginger
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/4 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
3/4 cup stout (beer), flat, room temperature
3 cups chilled whipping cream
6 tablespoons powdered sugar
3 tablespoons minced crystallized ginger
Orange slices, quartered
Crystallized ginger slices
Fresh cranberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Sift first 6 ingredients into medium bowl; set aside. Using electric mixer, beat butter and brown sugar in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in molasses. Beat in flour mixture alternately with stout in 3 additions each (mixture may look curdled). Beat just until smooth. Divide batter between prepared pans; smooth tops.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on rack 10 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks; cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap in plastic; let stand at room temperature.)
Using electric mixer, beat cream and powdered sugar in large bowl until peaks form. Fold in minced crystallized ginger. Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 2 cups frosting over top. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Arrange orange slices, ginger slices and cranberries on top. (Can be made 2 hours ahead. Chill. Let stand at room temperature 20 minutes before serving.)

White Chocolate and Strawberry Cheesecake 
1 9-ounce package chocolate wafer cookies, broken into pieces
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1 pound good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker’s), finely chopped
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup whipping cream
2 tablespoons vanilla extract
3 1-pint baskets strawberries, hulled, halved
1/2 cup apricot preserves
2 tablespoons brandy

Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. Butter 10-inch-diameter springform pan. Wrap outside of pan with foil. Finely grind cookies in processor. Add melted butter; process until crumbs are moist. Press crumbs onto bottom and 2 inches up sides of pan. Bake until set, about 15 minutes. Cool on rack. Maintain oven temperature.
Stir white chocolate in top of double boiler set over barely simmering water until melted and smooth. Remove from over water. Cool to lukewarm, stirring occasionally.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until fluffy, about 3 minutes. Gradually add sugar, then salt; beat until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add sour cream, whipping cream and vanilla; beat until well blended.
Bake cake until top begins to brown but center still moves slightly when pan is gently shaken, about 1 hour 20 minutes. Open oven door slightly; turn off oven. Leave cake in oven 30 minutes. Chill cake uncovered overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover; keep refrigerated.)
Run small knife between pan sides and cake. Release pan sides. Starting at outer edge of top of cake, arrange strawberry halves in slightly overlapping concentric circles, covering top completely. Stir preserves and brandy in heavy small saucepan over medium heat until mixture boils. Strain preserves. Brush glaze generously over strawberries, allowing some glaze to drip between berries. (Can be made 4 hours ahead. Chill.)

Pumpkin-Chocolate Chip Loaf Cake 
1 3/4 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons pumpkin pie spice
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
3 large eggs
1 cup canned pure pumpkin
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup whole milk
3/4 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips
3/4 cup chopped walnuts

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 9x5x2 1/2-inch metal loaf pan. Sift first 5 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth. Gradually beat in sugar, then beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in pumpkin and vanilla. Beat dry ingredients into pumpkin mixture alternately with milk. Stir in chocolate chips and nuts. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake loaf cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Cool in pan on rack 15 minutes. Turn cake out onto rack; cool completely. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Wrap in plastic; store at room temperature.)

Cinnamon Coffee Cake Kotniuk 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons double-acting baking powder
1 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/3 cups granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon

In a bowl whisk together the flour, the baking powder, and a pinch of salt and in another bowl stir together the sour cream and the baking soda. In a large bowl cream together the butter and 1 cup of the granulated sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, add the eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in the vanilla. Stir in the flour mixture alternately with the sour cream mixture and stir the batter until it is combined well. Pour the batter into a buttered 10-inch round cake pan. In a small bowl stir together the remaining 1/3 cup granulated sugar, the brown sugar, and the cinnamon and swirl the sugar mixture into the batter. Bake the cake in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 45 to 50 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean, transfer it to a rack, and let it cool.

Pumpkin Cheesecake with Caramel Swirl 
1 1/2 cups ground gingersnap cookies
1 1/2 cups toasted pecans (about 6 ounces)
1/4 cup firmly packed brown sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 2/3 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups canned solid pack pumpkin
9 tablespoons whipping cream
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground allspice
4 large eggs
1 tablespoon (about) purchased caramel sauce
1 cup sour cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Finely grind ground cookies, pecans and sugar in processor. Add melted butter and blend until combined. Press crust mixture onto bottom and up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until light. Transfer 3/4 cup mixture to small bowl; cover tightly and refrigerate to use for topping. Add pumpkin, 4 tablespoons whipping cream, ground cinnamon and ground allspice to mixture in large bowl and beat until well combined. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until combined. Pour filling into crust (filling will almost fill pan). Bake until cheesecake puffs, top browns and center moves only slightly when pan is shaken, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool 10 minutes. Run small sharp knife around cake pan sides to loosen cheesecake. Cool. Cover tightly and refrigerate overnight.
Bring remaining 3/4 cup cream cheese mixture to room temperature. Add remaining 5 tablespoons whipping cream to cream cheese mixture and stir to combine. Press down firmly on edges of cheesecake to even thickness. Pour cream cheese mixture over cheesecake, spreading evenly. Spoon caramel sauce in lines over cream cheese mixture. Using tip of knife, swirl caramel sauce into cream cheese mixture. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
Release pan sides from cheesecake. Spoon sour cream into pastry bag fitted with small star tip (do not stir before using). Pipe decorative border around cheesecake and serve.

Dark Moist Chocolate Cake 
16 ounces good-quality semisweet chocolate
10 tablespoons unsalted butter
5 extra-large eggs

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Line the bottom of an 8 1/2-inch springform pan with parchment paper or aluminum foil. Coat inside of pan with nonstick cooking spray.
Chop chocolate into pieces. Cut butter into small chunks. Place chocolate and butter in a double boiler or in a large metal bowl over simmering water, making sure bowl doesn't touch water. Melt, stirring frequently, until smooth. Remove from heat.
Whisk eggs and a pinch of salt in bowl of an electric mixer, until mixture triples in volume, about 8 minutes. Fold chocolate mixture into egg mixture with a flexible rubber spatula until completely incorporated.
Pour mixture into prepared pan. Bake for 20 minutes. The center will still be a little soft. Remove from oven. Let cool at least 30 minutes before cutting. The center will sink a little as it cools. You can refrigerate the cake for up to 2 days (let sit at room temperature for 1 hour before serving).

Chocolate Chip Oatmeal Cookies 
1/2 cup solid vegetable shortening
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
2 eggs
1 3.4-ounce package vanilla instant pudding mix
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon water
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup old-fashioned oats
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 12-ounce package semisweet chocolate chips
1 1/2 cups chopped walnuts (about 6 ounces)

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter heavy large cookie sheets. Beat vegetable shortening and unsalted butter in large bowl until light. Gradually add white and brown sugars and beat mixture until fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add vanilla pudding mix, vanilla extract, baking soda, water, ground cinnamon, ground nutmeg and salt and mix until well blended. Mix in oats, then flour. Stir in chocolate chips and walnuts.
Drop cookie dough by large rounded spoonfuls (about 3 tablespoons each) onto prepared cookie sheets, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake until cookies appear dry and tops are lightly cracked and soft when pressed, about 12 minutes (do not overbake). Cool cookies 5 minutes on cookie sheets. Transfer cookies to racks and cool. (Store cookies in airtight container.)

Upside-Down Pear Gingerbread Cake 
2 1/2 firm pears (preferably Bosc)
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup molasses (preferably mild)
1 cup boiling water
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 large egg, lightly beaten
Accompaniment: vanilla ice cream
a well-seasoned 10-inch cast-iron skillet or a 12-inch deep nonstick skillet (handle wrapped with a double layer of foil if not ovenproof)

Peel and core pears and cut each into 8 wedges.
Melt butter in skillet over moderate heat until foam subsides. Reduce heat to low, then sprinkle brown sugar over bottom of skillet and cook, undisturbed, 3 minutes (not all sugar will be melted). Arrange pears decoratively over sugar and cook, undisturbed, 2 minutes. Remove from heat.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, cinnamon, ginger, cloves, and salt in a bowl. Whisk together molasses and boiling water in a small bowl. Beat together butter, brown sugar, and egg in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until creamy, about 2 minutes, then alternately mix in flour mixture and molasses in 3 batches at low speed until smooth.
Pour batter over topping in skillet, spreading evenly and being careful not to disturb pears, and bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, 40 to 50 minutes.
Cool cake in skillet on a rack 5 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge of skillet, then invert a large plate with a lip over skillet and, using pot holders to hold skillet and plate tightly together, invert cake onto plate. Replace any pears that stick to skillet. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Winter-Spiced Molten Chocolate Cakes with Rum-Ginger Ice Cream 
1 pint vanilla ice cream, softened
2 tablespoons chopped crystallized ginger
1 tablespoon dark rum
14 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter
2 teaspoons ground coriander
2 teaspoons ground cardamom
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon ground white pepper
6 large eggs
6 large egg yolks
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 cups powdered sugar
1 cup all purpose flour
Additional powdered sugar
Crystallized ginger strips

Place softened ice cream in medium bowl. Using plastic spatula, fold ginger and rum into ice cream. Transfer to airtight container. Freeze ice cream mixture until firm, about 4 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep frozen.)
Generously butter eight 3/4-cup soufflé dishes. Stir chocolate, butter, coriander, cardamom, cinnamon, cloves, and white pepper in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth. Cool slightly. Whisk eggs, egg yolks, and vanilla in large bowl to blend. Whisk in 3 cups powdered sugar, then chocolate mixture, then flour. Transfer batter to prepared dishes, filling to top and dividing equally. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. Bake cakes until batter has risen above dish, top edges are dark brown, and centers are still soft and runny, about 15 minutes, or about 18 minutes for refrigerated batter. Run small knife around cakes to loosen. Allow cakes to rest in dishes 5 minutes. Using hot pad and holding dish very firmly, place plate gently atop 1 cake and invert onto plate. Repeat with remaining cakes. Dust with powdered sugar. Top with crystallized ginger. Serve cakes with rum-ginger ice cream.

Tropical Cheesecake with Coconut Shortbread Crust 
8 ounces (about 30) Coconut Shortbread Cookies
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
8 ounces fromage blanc* or fresh whole-milk ricotta cheese,** room temperature
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
4 large eggs
1 1/2 cups sour cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
Unsweetened coconut chips,*** lightly toasted
Cut-up fresh tropical fruits

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Finely grind cookies in processor. Press crumbs (about 1 1/2 cups) over bottom (not sides) of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 1/2-inch-high sides (layer will be thin). Bake until crust is crisp, about 10 minutes. Cool on rack while preparing filling. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat first 3 ingredients in large bowl until smooth. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, just until blended. Pour filling over crust in pan (mixture will not fill pan). Bake cake until filling is just set and puffed around edges, about 45 minutes (cake may crack).
Whisk first 3 ingredients in small bowl to blend; spread over top of hot cake. Return cake to oven and bake 5 minutes. Run small knife between top edge of cake and pan. Chill cake uncovered overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover; keep chilled.)
Release pan sides. Sprinkle toasted coconut chips around top edge of cake. Serve cake with tropical fruits.
*Fromage blanc is sold at cheese stores, specialty foods stores, and some supermarkets.
**Fresh ricotta cheese is sold at Italian markets and some supermarkets.
***Unsweetened coconut chips are available at natural foods stores and some supermarkets.

Flourless Chocolate-Orange Almond Cake 
Pareve kosher-for-Passover margarine, melted
1 1/4 cups whole almonds (6 to 7 ounces)
1 cup sugar, divided
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 cup orange juice
2 teaspoons grated orange peel
6 large eggs, separated
1 vanilla bean, split lengthwise
1/4 teaspoon salt
Chocolate-Orange Sorbet

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Brush bottom of 10-inch-diameter springform pan generously with margarine. Blend almonds and 1/4 cup sugar in processor until almonds are finely ground. Add chocolate; blend until chocolate is finely ground, scraping sides and bottom of bowl occasionally.
Whisk cocoa, orange juice, and orange peel in small bowl until smooth. Combine egg yolks and 1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar in large bowl. Scrape in seeds from vanilla bean. Using electric mixer, beat until yolk mixture is very thick, about 4 minutes. Beat in cocoa mixture. Fold in ground-almond mixture. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites and salt in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add 2 tablespoons sugar, beating until whites are stiff but not dry. Fold whites into chocolate batter in 3 additions. Transfer to prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan on rack. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with foil; store at room temperature.)
Cut around cake in pan; release sides. Cut cake into wedges. Transfer to plates. Place scoop of sorbet alongside.

Caramelized Pear Cake 
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 1/4 pounds Bosc pears, peeled, quartered, cored
1 1/3 cups all purpose flour
2/3 cup sugar
3 tablespoons minced crystallized ginger
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
1/2 cup vegetable oil
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon grated orange peel
1 cup grated peeled Bosc pears (about 2 medium)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Melt butter in heavy 10-inch-diameter ovenproof skillet over low heat. Remove from heat. Sprinkle with brown sugar. Arrange quartered pears in flower design atop sugar, cutting some pieces to fit center if necessary.
Whisk flour, 2/3 cup sugar, crystallized ginger, cinnamon, baking soda, ground ginger and salt in medium bowl to blend. Whisk eggs, oil, vanilla and orange peel in large bowl to blend. Mix in grated pears. Mix dry ingredients into egg mixture.
Carefully pour batter over pears in skillet. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool cake in skillet on rack 20 minutes. Run knife around skillet sides to loosen. Place plate on skillet over cake. Invert cake onto plate. Serve warm.

Crunchy Spice Cookies 
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) unsalted butter or margarine, softened
1/4 cup packed dark brown sugar
1 cup orange blossom honey
2 egg whites (kept separate)
3 cups unbleached all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon freshly ground black pepper
3 tablespoons chopped candied orange peel (*to make your own refer to the recipe available in the book)
1 cup unblanched whole almonds

Preheat the oven to 375 degrees. Grease a baking sheet.
In a large bowl, cream the butter or margarine with the brown sugar and honey. Add 1 of the egg whites and mix until evenly blended. Sift together the flour, baking soda, salt, and spices into another bowl and add the butter mixture, stirring until the dough is smooth and no longer sticky.
Turn the dough out onto a lightly floured work surface and knead in the orange peel and almonds until evenly dispersed. Divide the dough into 3 pieces and form each piece into a log that is 8 inches long by 2 inches thick. Place the logs 3 inches apart on the greased baking sheet. Beat the remaining egg white lightly and brush the tops of the logs with it.
Bake the logs for 20 to 25 minutes, or until firm to the touch. Remove from the oven and allow to cool for 10 minutes. Reduce the oven temperature to 325 degrees. Slice the logs 1/4 inch thick and lay the cookies on the baking sheet. Return to the oven for another 15 to 20 minutes to dry them out. The cookies will become crisp as they cool, so don't overbake them. Cool on a rack.

Sour Cream Layer Cake with Pecan Brittle 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 cup water
1/8 teaspoon cream of tartar
3/4 cup pecan halves, toastedcoarsely chopped
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 18.25-ounce box yellow cake mix
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
1/3 cup vegetable oil
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
2 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, coarsely grated
1/2 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
3 tablespoons water
1/4 cup whipping cream
6 cups (about) powdered sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature

Spray baking sheet with nonstick spray. Combine sugar, 1/4 cup water, and cream of tartar in heavy small saucepan. Stir over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat and boil without stirring until syrup is deep amber color, occasionally brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush, about 9 minutes. Add chopped pecans and swirl to blend. Pour out onto prepared baking sheet; spread evenly. Cool brittle completely. Cut 3 large pieces of brittle (each about 1 1/2 inches). Cut remaining brittle into 1/3-inch pieces. (Can be made 1 week ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Line bottom of pans with waxed paper. Combine cake mix, eggs, sour cream, oil, vanilla extract, and almond extract in large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat mixture until well blended, about 3 minutes; fold in grated bittersweet chocolate. Divide batter equally between prepared pans.
Bake cakes until brown on top and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Cut around cakes to loosen; turn out onto racks. Peel off paper and cool cakes completely.
Combine 1/2 cup brown sugar and 3 tablespoons water in heavy small saucepan. Stir over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves. Increase heat; boil until slightly thickened, about 3 minutes. Remove from heat; cool 5 minutes. Mix in cream. Beat 3 cups powdered sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended. Beat in brown sugar mixture. Beat in enough remaining powdered sugar to form frosting that is thick enough to spread.
Place 1 cake layer, flat side up, on platter. Spread with 1 cup frosting. Sprinkle with 1/2 cup small brittle pieces; press into frosting. Top with second cake layer, flat side down. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Stand large brittle pieces in center of cake. Arrange smaller brittle pieces in 1-inch-wide border around top edge of cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let stand at room temperature 1 hour before serving.)

Dundee Cake with Hot Marmalade Sauce 
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon pumpkin pie spice
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon whisky
1 1/2 teaspoons grated orange peel
3 large eggs
3/4 cup golden raisins
3/4 cup dark raisins
3/4 cup dried currants
1/3 cup chopped candied orange peel
2 tablespoons orange marmalade
Whole blanched almonds
2/3 cup orange marmalade
3 tablespoons whisky
4 oranges
Sweetened whipped cream

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Butter 8-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides; line bottom with parchment paper. Sift flour, baking powder, salt, and spice into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter, sugar, whisky, and grated orange peel in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Stir in dry ingredients, then all dried fruits and candied peel. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake 1 hour. Remove cake from oven. Brush top with 2 tablespoons marmalade. Arrange almonds around edge, pressing lightly to adhere. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes longer. Cool cake completely in pan on rack. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Cover; store at room temperature.) Turn cake out of pan; peel off parchment. Place upright on plate.
Combine marmalade and whisky in medium saucepan. Cut all peel and white pith from oranges. Working over bowl to catch juices, cut between membranes, releasing orange segments. Add 2 tablespoons orange juice from bowl to saucepan. Stir over medium-low heat until marmalade melts and sauce is heated through, about 5 minutes. Transfer sauce to serving bowl.
Serve cake with warm sauce, orange segments, and whipped cream.

Orange-Cardamom Cupcakes with Vanilla Frosting 
33 2 1/2-inch-wide by 1 1/2-inch-high paper panettone molds
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
4 1/2 cups cake flour
3 1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom
2 1/4 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
9 large eggs
1 1/2 tablespoons grated orange peel
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
2 teaspoons orange-flower water*
2 1/4 cups (4 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 3/4 cups sugar
1 cup buttermilk

Position 1 rack in top third and 1 rack in bottom third of oven and preheat to 325 degrees F. Lightly spray insides of 33 paper molds with nonstick spray; arrange molds on 2 large rimmed baking sheets.
Sift flour, ground cardamom, baking powder, and salt into large bowl. Whisk eggs, orange peel, vanilla, and orange-flower water in bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter in another large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add sugar, beating until well blended. Beat in egg mixture in 3 additions. Beat in dry ingredients in 4 additions alternately with buttermilk, scraping bowl occasionally.
Spoon 1/3 cup batter into each paper mold. Bake cupcakes until puffed and tester inserted into center comes out clean, reversing sheets after 12 minutes, about 25 minutes total (cupcakes may not brown on top). Transfer cupcakes to racks; cool completely.
Frost orange cupcakes with vanilla frosting. (Can be made ahead. Arrange cupcakes in deep disposable roasting pans. Cover pans with foil. Refrigerate up to 2 days, or store at room temperature 1 day. Bring chilled cupcakes to room temperature before serving.)
Decorate cupcakes with mini roses up to 4 hours before serving.
*A flavoring extract sold at liquor stores and in the liquor section or specialty foods section of some supermarkets.

Carrot Ring 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted margarine, room temperature
4 large eggs
2 cups (packed) coarsely grated peeled carrots
3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 12-cup Bundt pan. Sift first 5 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and margarine in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs. Add sifted dry ingredients; beat until blended. Stir in carrots. Beat in lemon juice and lemon peel. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake carrot ring until tester inserted near center comes out clean, about 40 minutes. Cool carrot ring in pan on rack 15 minutes. Turn ring out onto platter and serve warm. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and let stand at room temperature. Rewarm in 350 degrees F oven 10 minutes before serving.)

Boca Negra Chocolate Chipotle Cakes 
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, cut into small pieces, plus additional for greasing ramekins
1 cup sugar plus additional for dusting
6 medium dried chipotle chiles* (1 ounce)
6 tablespoons fresh orange juice
10 oz Valrhona semisweet chocolate (56%) or fine-quality bittersweet chocolate, finely chopped
4 large eggs
4 teaspoons all-purpose flour
1/8 teaspoon salt
Special equipment: 8 (4-oz) ramekins
Accompaniments: sweet tomatillo sauce ; vanilla custard sauce

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter ramekins and dust with sugar, knocking out excess.
Toast chiles in a dry heavy skillet over moderate heat, turning, until fragrant, 1 to 2 minutes. Discard stems, seeds, and ribs, then soak chiles in hot water to cover until softened, about 30 minutes. Drain, reserving soaking liquid. Purée chiles in a mini food processor or a blender, adding 2 to 3 tablespoons soaking liquid as needed to form a paste. Force paste through a fine-mesh sieve into a bowl and discard solids. Set aside 1 1/2 tablespoons chile paste and freeze remainder for another use.
Bring juice and 1 cup sugar to a boil in a 1- to 1 1/2-quart saucepan, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Pour hot syrup over chocolate in a large bowl, stirring until chocolate is melted. Add butter and stir until melted.
Add eggs 1 at a time, whisking after each addition, then stir in chile paste, flour, and salt. Divide among ramekins and bake in hot water bath , uncovered, until just firm and top is starting to crust, 50 to 60 minutes. Transfer ramekins with tongs to a work surface and let stand 2 minutes.
Unmold warm cakes directly onto dessert plates (they will be difficult to move once they adhere).
*Available at Mexican markets, many supermarkets, and Chile Today—Hot Tamale (800-468-7377).

Pecan Molasses Bundt Cake with Bourbon Glaze 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3 1/4 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 teaspoons vanilla extract
4 large eggs
1 cup whole milk
1 cup pecans, toasted, finely chopped
1/4 cup dark corn syrup
1/4 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 teaspoons water
1 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups sugar
1 cup buttermilk
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter
2 teaspoons dark corn syrup
1/2 cup bourbon
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
Vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 10-inch-diameter Bundt pan with nonstick spray; dust with flour. Sift 3 1/4 cups flour, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, butter, and 2 teaspoons vanilla in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in flour mixture in 3 additions, alternating with milk in 2 additions. Transfer half of batter to prepared pan.
Stir pecans, corn syrup, molasses, and 2 teaspoons vanilla in another medium bowl to blend. Stir in baking soda. Stir pecan mixture into remaining cake batter in bowl. Spoon pecan batter over batter in pan (do not swirl). Bake until tester inserted near center of cake comes out with dry crumbs attached, about 50 minutes. Transfer cake in pan to rack.
Stir 2 teaspoons water and baking soda in small bowl to dissolve baking soda. Bring sugar, buttermilk, butter, and corn syrup to boil in heavy 6-quart saucepan over high heat, stirring to dissolve sugar and melt butter. Reduce heat to medium-high. Stir in baking soda mixture (glaze will bubble). Boil until sauce is golden and slightly thickened, stirring often, about 8 minutes. Remove from heat. Stir in bourbon and vanilla.
Invert warm cake onto platter. Immediately brush 1 1/2 cups hot glaze over cake, allowing glaze to soak into cake. Cool cake completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and let stand at room temperature. Cover and refrigerate remaining glaze.)
Rewarm remaining glaze, stirring. Serve cake with ice cream and warm glaze.

Chocolate Ganache Cakes with White-Coffee Foam 
1/2 cup green coffee beans
1/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1 (13 1/2-oz) can unsweetened coconut milk
1/2 cup heavy cream
4 whole large eggs
4 large egg yolks
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1/2 lb Valrhona or Lindt bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), chopped
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1/2 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
Special equipment: 1-liter whipped-cream siphon and 2 gas (N2O) chargers

Toast coffee beans with brown sugar in a 2-quart heavy saucepan over moderately low heat, stirring constantly to evenly toast beans, until sugar is melted and beans are color of almond skins, 12 to 15 minutes.
Add coconut milk and simmer (mixture will bubble up and steam, and sugar will harden), stirring occasionally, until sugar is dissolved, about 5 minutes. Pour through a sieve into a metal bowl and stir in cream.
Set metal bowl in a larger bowl of ice and cold water to chill, stirring occasionally.
Transfer sauce to siphon and screw on top tightly. Unscrew charge holder from head and put in a charger. Reattach charge holder and screw on tightly. Gas will be released into siphon (with a whooshing sound) within a few seconds. Chill filled siphon at least 1 hour to produce a stiffer foam. Remove and discard first charger. (As you unscrew charge holder, you’ll hear a brief hissing sound.) If fitting from holder comes out attached to charger, just remove charger and reattach fitting. Screw on second charger and chill at least 15 minutes (longer if a test of foam is not thick enough).
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Butter and flour 8 (4-oz) ramekins, knocking out excess flour, and put on a baking sheet.
Whisk together whole eggs, yolks, and sugar until combined well.
Melt chocolate and butter in a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a saucepan of simmering water, stirring.
Remove top of double boiler or bowl from heat and whisk egg mixture into it. Sift flour evenly over chocolate mixture and fold in until just combined.
Divide among ramekins and bake in middle of oven until cakes begin to puff but centers are not set, 12 to 13 minutes.
Shake siphon well, about 1 minute. Turn upside down and press lever to fill a bowl with coffee foam.
Serve cakes in ramekins with coffee foam on the side.

Chocolate-Amaretti Tortes 
4 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup sliced almonds, toasted
12 1 1/2-inch-diameter amaretti cookies (Italian macaroons), about 2.6 ounces total
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
Pinch of salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/2 cup sugar
3 large eggs
3/4 cup chilled whipping cream
1 1/2 teaspoons powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
2 amaretti cookies, crumbled

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter four 3/4-cup custard cups or soufflé dishes. Dust with flour; tap out excess. Line bottom of cups with parchment paper rounds. Place on rimmed baking sheet.
Stir chocolate in top of double boiler set over simmering water until melted and smooth. Using on/off turns, blend almonds, amaretti, cinnamon, and salt in processor until finely ground. Transfer to medium bowl. Add butter, sugar, and eggs to processor; mix until blended and smooth, occasionally scraping down sides of bowl, about 3 minutes. Add cookie mixture and melted chocolate. Using on/off turns, process just until blended. Divide batter among custard cups. Bake until tops of tortes are dry and puffed and tester inserted into centers comes out with moist crumbs attached, about 30 minutes. Transfer cups to rack; cool 15 minutes. Run small knife around edges of cups to release tortes. Turn tortes out onto rack and turn right side up; cool. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Wrap in plastic and store at room temperature.)
Beat together cream, sugar, and almond extract in medium bowl until cream holds peaks. (Can be made 4 hours ahead; refrigerate.)
Place 1 torte on each of 4 plates. Top with dollop of whipped cream, sprinkle with crumbled amaretti, and serve.

Pedro Ximenez Sherry Cheesecake 
170 g (6 ounces) digestive biscuit crumbs
40 g (1 1/2 ounces) skinned, roasted and crushed hazelnuts
40 g (1 1/2 ounces) unsalted butter, softened
grated zest of 1/2 lemon
1.5 kg (3 1/2 pounds) cream cheese
225 g (8 ounces) icing (confectioners') sugar, sieved
3 medium eggs
2 vanilla pods, cut in half and the seeds scraped out
10 ml (2 teaspoons) vanilla extract (not vanilla essence)
100 ml (3 1/2 fluid ounces) Pedro Ximénez sherry
finely grated zest of 2 lemons
Shelled and skinned whole hazelnuts, toasted and roughly chopped

1. To make the base, combine all the ingredients. Press the mixture into a 22.5 x 6.25 cm (9 x 2 1/2 inch) springform tin that has been lined with greased parchment paper. Chill.
2. Preheat the oven to 175 degrees C / 335 degrees F / gas mark 3 1/2.
3. To make the filling, put the cream cheese in a blender and blend until smooth. Add all the other ingredients except the lemon zest and blend well. Then add the lemon zest — do not be tempted to add it earlier or the mixture will split.
4. Pour the filling on to the chilled base and bake for 45 minutes. Only the outside 2.5 cm (1 inch) of the cake will appear to be cooked; the middle should be wobbly. Cool completely and then chill for 2 hours, or until set.
5. Serve at room temperature. Place a slice on a plate and scatter on the toasted hazelnuts. Serve with large glasses of chilled Pedro Ximénez sherry.

Almond Cake with Kirsch Cream and Lingonberry Preserves 
7 oz almond paste (not marzipan)
1 cup all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
8 large eggs at room temperature
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy cream
2 tablespoons kirsch
1 cup lingonberry preserves
Special equipment: an 11- by 2 1/2-inch (12-cup) springform tube pan with a decorative bottom, or a 9- by 4-inch (14-cup) tube pan

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter pan generously and dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Break almond paste into pieces and pulse in a food processor until finely ground. Sift together flour, baking powder, and salt into a bowl. Beat together butter and sugar with an electric mixer at high speed until pale and very fluffy, about 3 minutes. Add almond paste and vanilla and beat until combined well, about 2 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition and occasionally scraping down side of bowl. Add flour mixture and mix at low speed 30 seconds. Finish mixing batter by hand with a rubber spatula, scraping bottom of bowl.
Pour batter into tube pan, smoothing top. Bake in middle of oven, rotating pan halfway through baking, until a tester comes out clean and edges begin to pull away from pan, 55 minutes to 1 hour total.
Cool cake completely in pan on a rack. (Cake may shrink and buckle slightly, but don't worry. This won't be visible once cake is inverted.) Run a thin knife around outside and inside edges and invert a plate over pan, then invert cake onto plate.
Just before serving, beat together cream and kirsch in a chilled bowl with cleaned beaters until soft peaks form.
Serve cake with kirsch cream and lingonberry preserves.

Pistachio, Lemon, and Vanilla Shortbread 
1 1/2 cups all purpose flour
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup semolina flour*
1 cup (2 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 1/2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup shelled natural pistachios (about 4 ounces), coarsely chopped

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 13x9x2-inch metal baking pan. Combine all purpose flour, sugar, and semolina flour in processor; blend 5 seconds. Add butter, lemon peel, and vanilla. Using on/off turns, blend until coarse meal forms. Turn dough out into bowl. Add nuts and knead gently to combine. Press dough evenly over bottom of prepared pan. Using fork, pierce dough all over.
Bake shortbread until pale brown in center and golden at edges, about 35 minutes. Cool in pan on rack 10 minutes. Cut lengthwise into 4 strips, then cut each strip crosswise into 6 squares. Cool completely in pan. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover tightly with foil; store at room temperature.)
*Semolina flour, often labeled  inchpasta flour, inch is available at specialty foods stores, Italian markets, and some supermarkets.

Peanut Butter Cheesecake with Peanut Brittle 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups creamy peanut butter (do not use old-fashioned style or freshly ground)
1 cup sugar
3/4 cup sour cream
3 large eggs
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 11-ounce package peanut butter chips
1 tablespoon apricot jam, warmed
1 1/2 cups chopped Peanut Brittle

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Spray 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Line bottom with parchment. Double-wrap outside of pan with heavy-duty aluminum foil.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, peanut butter, and sugar in large bowl until well blended and fluffy. Beat in sour cream. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then vanilla. Stir in peanut butter chips. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Place springform pan in large roasting pan. Fill roasting pan with enough hot water to come 1 inch up sides of springform pan. Bake cake until slightly firm to touch and top appears dry, about 1 hour.
Refrigerate cake uncovered until cold, at least 4 hours. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead; cover and keep refrigerated.)
Cut around pan sides to loosen cheesecake; release sides. Invert cake onto platter; peel off parchment. Brush apricot jam over top of cake. Sprinkle 1 1/2 cups peanut brittle pieces over cake and serve.

Chocolate Brownie Torte with White Chocolate Mousse and Caramelized Bananas 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) butter
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1 ounce bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 large eggs
3/4 cup sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/2 cup cake flour
12 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), chopped
1 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream
3 large egg whites
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
4 firm but ripe bananas, peeled, cut diagonally into 1/2-inch-thick rounds
1/4 cup sugar
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
Bittersweet Chocolate Sauce

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Dust pan with flour. Stir butter and both chocolates in heavy small saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth. Cool to room temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat eggs and sugar in large bowl until thick, about 5 minutes. Beat in vanilla. Stir in chocolate mixture. Sift flour over and fold in. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center of brownie comes out with dry crumbs attached, about 18 minutes. Cool completely in pan on rack.
Stir white chocolate and 3/4 cup cream in heavy medium saucepan over low heat just until white chocolate is melted. Cool completely.
Beat remaining 3/4 cup cream in another large bowl until peaks form. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in medium bowl until stiff but not dry. Gently fold whites, then whipped cream, into white chocolate mixture. Spoon mousse atop brownie in pan; smooth top. Cover torte and refrigerate overnight.
Preheat broiler. Line heavy large baking sheet with foil. Spray foil with nonstick spray. Toss banana slices with sugar and lemon juice in large bowl to coat; arrange in single layer on prepared baking sheet. Broil until bananas begin to caramelize, about 3 minutes. Cool completely.
Release pan sides from torte. Transfer torte to platter. Top with caramelized bananas. Serve with chocolate sauce.

Peppermint Fudge Cake 
2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1 2/3 cups boiling water
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 large eggs
10 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker’s), chopped
1 3/4 cups chilled whipping cream
1/4 cup sour cream
24 red-and-white-striped hard peppermint candies, crushed (about 2/3 cup)
2 cups whipping cream
16 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter and flour three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Whisk flour, baking soda and salt in small bowl to blend. Place cocoa in medium bowl; whisk in 1 2/3 cups boiling water. Cool cocoa mixture to room temperature, whisking occasionally.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in sugar, then vanilla. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. At low speed, beat in flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with cocoa mixture in 2 additions. Divide batter equally among prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans 10 minutes. Cut around cakes to loosen; turn out onto racks. Cool completely.
Combine white chocolate, 3/4 cup whipping cream and sour cream in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over low heat just until chocolate is melted and smooth. Transfer white chocolate mixture to large bowl; cool to barely lukewarm, whisking occasionally, about 20 minutes. Mix in candies. Beat remaining 1 cup cream in medium bowl to soft peaks. Fold cream into barely lukewarm white chocolate mixture in 4 additions. Chill mousse until beginning to set, about 2 hours. Place 1 cake layer on 8-inch cardboard round. Spread half of mousse over top of cake. Top with second cake layer, remaining mousse and third cake layer. Chill assembled cake until mousse is cold and set, about 3 hours.
Bring cream to simmer in heavy large saucepan. Remove from heat. Add bittersweet chocolate; whisk until melted and smooth. Cool ganache until thick but still pourable, about 45 minutes.
Place cake on rack set over baking sheet. Pour ganache over cake, spreading with metal spatula to cover sides evenly. Chill cake until ganache sets, at least 30 minutes and up to 1 day.

Upside-Down Pear Cardamom Cake 
4 firm-ripe Forelle or small Bosc pears
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 teaspoon vanilla
1 large egg
3/4 cup whole milk
Accompaniment: vanilla ice cream

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Peel pears, then halve lengthwise and core. Spread sugar on a plate, then press cut sides of pear halves into sugar to coat, reserving remaining sugar.
Melt butter in a well-seasoned 10-inch cast-iron skillet over moderate heat until foam subsides. Reduce heat to low and arrange pears, cut sides down, decoratively in skillet. Sprinkle reserved sugar all around pears. Cook pears over moderately low heat until sugar begins to caramelize, about 15 minutes, and remove skillet from heat.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, cardamom, and salt. Beat together butter and sugar in a bowl with an electric mixer until light and fluffy. Add vanilla and egg and beat well. Add flour mixture and milk alternately in 3 batches, mixing at low speed after each addition until just combined.
Spoon batter over pears in skillet, gently spreading evenly and being careful not to disturb pears (batter will not cover tops of all pears). Bake in middle of oven until golden brown and a tester comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes.
Cool cake in skillet on a rack 5 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge and invert a plate over skillet. Invert cake onto plate (wearing oven mitts), keeping plate and skillet firmly pressed together. Replace any fruit stuck to bottom of skillet if necessary.
Serve cake warm or at room temperature.

Spice Cookies 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2/3 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 tablespoons hot water
1 cup confectioners' sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice

In the bowl of an electric mixer cream the butter with the brown sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, into the bowl sift together the cinnamon, the ginger, the cardamom, the cloves, the salt, and the flour, and beat the mixture until it is just combined. In a small bowl stir together the baking soda and the water, beat the mixture into the dough, and chill the dough, wrapped in plastic wrap, for at least 30 minutes or overnight.
Preheat the oven to 375 degrees F. Halve the dough, roll out one of the halves 1/8 inch thick between sheets of plastic wrap, and cut out cookies with 2-inch decorative cutters (such as stars or gingerbread men). Roll out the remaining dough and cut out more cookies in the same manner. Bake the cookies in batches on buttered baking sheets in the middle of the oven for 8 minutes, transfer them to racks, and let them cool completely. The cookies may be made 1 month in advance and kept frozen in airtight containers.
In a small bowl whisk together the confectioners' sugar and the lemon juice and transfer the icing to a resealable plastic bag. Cut a small opening in a bottom corner of the bag, pipe the icing onto the cookies, and let it dry completely.

Almond Cake with Berries 
Butter for greasing pan
1/2 cup all-purpose flour plus additional for dusting pan
1 cup sliced almonds (preferably with skins; 3 1/2 oz)
2/3 cup sugar
4 large egg yolks
3 tablespoons whole milk
3/4 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 large egg whites
1/3 cup water
1/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1/8 teaspoon almond extract
2 cups blackberries (9 oz)
1 cup raspberries (4 1/2 oz)
Garnish: confectioners sugar

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Generously butter a 9- by 2 inch round cake pan and dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Pulse almonds with 1/3 cup sugar in a food processor until finely ground. Transfer almond sugar to a large bowl and add yolks, flour (1/2 cup), milk, vanilla, and salt, whisking until combined (batter will be thick).
Beat whites with a pinch of salt in a bowl using an electric mixer at medium-high speed until they just hold soft peaks. Add remaining 1/3 cup sugar, a little at a time, beating at medium speed, then beat at high speed until whites hold stiff, glossy peaks.
Fold about one third of whites into batter to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Pour batter into cake pan and bake until cake is springy to the touch and a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out clean, 18 to 20 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 5 minutes, then invert onto rack and cool 10 minutes.
Bring water and sugar to a boil in a 1-quart heavy saucepan, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Cool syrup 20 minutes, then stir in lemon juice and almond extract. Gently stir in berries.
Arrange cake, right side up, on a plate and spoon berries over top, then slowly pour fruit syrup evenly over cake. Dust with confectioners sugar if desired.

Winemaker's Grape Cake 
Equipment: One 9-inch (23-cm) springform pan
Butter and flour for preparing the cake pan
2 large eggs, at room temperature
2/3 cup (135 g) sugar
4 tablespoons (2 ounces; 60 g) unsalted butter, melted
1/4 cup (6 cl) extra-virgin olive oil
1/3 cup (8 cl) whole milk
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups (200 g) unbleached all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
A pinch of sea salt
Grated zest (yellow peel) of 1 lemon
Grated zest (orange peel) of 1 orange
10 ounces (300 g) small, fresh purple grapes (see above for varieties)
Confectioners’ sugar, for garnish

1. Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (175 degrees C; gas mark 4/5).
2. Generously butter and flour the springform pan, tapping out any excess flour. Set aside.
3. In the bowl of an electric mixer fitted with a whisk, beat the eggs and sugar until thick and lemon-colored, about 3 minutes. Add the butter, oil, milk, and vanilla extract, and mix until blended.
4. Sift the flour, baking powder, and salt into a large bowl. Add the lemon zest and orange zest, and toss to coat the zest with flour. Spoon the mixture into the bowl of batter and stir with a wooden spoon until thoroughly blended. Scrape down the sides of the bowl and mix once more. Set aside for 10 minutes to allow the flour to absorb the liquids.
5. Stir about 3/4 of the grapes into the batter. Spoon the batter into the prepared cake pan and smooth out the top with a spatula.
6. Place the pan in the center of the oven. Bake for 15 minutes, then sprinkle the top of the cake with remaining grapes. Bake until the top is a deep golden brown and the cake feels quite firm when pressed with a fingertip, about 40 minutes more, for a total baking time of 55 minutes. Remove to rack to cool. After 10 minutes, run a knife along the sides of the pan. Release and remove the side of the springform pan, leaving the cake on the pan base. Sprinkle with confectioners’ sugar just before serving. Serve at room temperature, cut into thin wedges.
Grape cake is an ideal match for _vin santo,_the rich, smooth, aromatic sweet wine prepared in small quantities on many Italian estates.
Over time, I have identified the mystery that discourages many shoppers from buying grapes: the inevitable hazy white film. Though one might understandably assume it’s due to a spray of pesticide, the film is in fact a natural substance produced by the grape. It acts as a protective covering to prevent moisture from penetrating the fruit. It also keeps the skin from cracking when the grape loses moisture. Even better, the film contains nothing toxic! You will find the same harmless film on plums.

Warm Chocolate Cake with Whipped Cream 
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, diced
3 large eggs
3 large egg yolks
6 tablespoons sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons all purpose flour
Whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter six 3/4-cup soufflé dishes or custard cups. Stir chocolate and butter in heavy medium saucepan over medium-low heat until melted and smooth; cool to lukewarm. Using electric mixer, beat eggs, egg yolks, sugar and salt in large bowl at high speed until pale yellow and thick, about 5 minutes. Fold cooled chocolate into egg mixture. Sift flour over; fold until well incorporated. Divide batter equally among prepared dishes. Transfer to baking sheet.
Bake until set at edges but still soft in center, about 18 minutes. Serve warm with whipped cream.

Spiced Pumpkin Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting and Chocolate Leaves 
6 ounces imported milk chocolate (such as Lindt), finely chopped, plus one 1-inch piece of milk chocolate
24 fresh lemon or camellia leaves, wiped clean with moist paper towels, patted dry
6 ounces good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker's), finely chopped, plus one 1-inch piece of white chocolate
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped, plus one 1-inch piece of bittersweet chocolate
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
2 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 cup dried currants
1/2 cup chopped walnuts
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
2 large eggs
1/2 cup whole milk
1 cup canned solid pack pumpkin
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
3 tablespoons robust-flavored (dark) molasses
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 teaspoons grated orange peel
2 8-ounce packages chilled cream cheese
1/3 cup powdered sugar

Line small baking sheet (or large plate) with foil. Add enough hot water (125 degrees F. to 130 degrees F.) to 9-inch-diameter cake pan to measure depth of 1 inch. Place 6 ounces finely chopped milk chocolate in 3- to 4-cup glass bowl; place bowl in hot water. Let stand just until outer edges of chocolate melt. Stir until chocolate is partially melted (some soft pieces will remain). Transfer bowl to work surface and stir until chocolate is melted and smooth and instant-read thermometer registers no higher than 88 degrees F. (barely lukewarm). If melted chocolate is warmer than 88 degrees F., add 1-inch piece of milk chocolate and stir until temperature falls below 88 degrees F. Remove any remaining piece of chocolate.
Hold 1 leaf with heavily veined side up. Using pastry brush, carefully coat upper surface completely with chocolate. Using fingertips, wipe away any chocolate overflow from edges of leaf. Place leaf, chocolate side up, on prepared baking sheet. Repeat with 7 more leaves. Refrigerate coated leaves until chocolate is cold and set, about 10 minutes.
Carefully peel lemon leaves off chocolate leaves; return chocolate leaves to baking sheet and refrigerate.
Line another small baking sheet (or large plate) with foil. Melt 6 ounces white chocolate and make 8 white chocolate leaves, following technique and temperature guidelines for milk chocolate leaves.
Line another small baking sheet (or large plate) with foil. Melt 6 ounces bittersweet chocolate and make 8 bittersweet chocolate leaves, following technique for milk chocolate leaves. (Chocolate leaves can be prepared 2 days ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line bottoms of two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides with waxed paper. Spray sides of pans with nonstick spray. Sift flour, baking powder, cinnamon, nutmeg, baking soda, salt and cloves into medium bowl; sift again. Place currants in small bowl. Add 1 tablespoon flour mixture and toss to coat; mix in walnuts.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually beat in sugar. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with milk in 2 additions. Beat in pumpkin. Fold in currant-walnut mixture. Divide batter equally between prepared pans (batter will be about 3/4 inch deep).
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Turn cakes out onto racks; peel off waxed paper. Cool layers completely. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Wrap in foil and store at room temperature.)
Beat butter, brown sugar, molasses, vanilla and orange peel in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in cream cheese. Sift powdered sugar over; beat to blend. (Frosted cake can be prepared up to 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let cake stand at room temperature 2 hours before continuing.)
Place 1 cake layer, bottom side up, on platter. Spread with 1 1/2 cups frosting. Top with second cake layer, bottom side down. Spread remaining frosting smoothly over top and sides of cake.
Arrange chocolate leaves decoratively on top and sides of cake. Serve immediately or let stand up to 2 hours.

Three Berry Butter Cake 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter
1/4 cup heavy cream
3 large eggs at room temperature
1 1/4 cups granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh lemon zest
2 teaspoons baking powder
1 teaspoon vanilla
2 1/2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
6 cups mixed berries (1 3/4 ponds) such as raspberries, blackberries, and blueberries
2 tablespoons confectioners sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Grease a 13- by 9- by 2-inch metal baking pan, then line bottom with wax paper and grease paper.
Heat butter with cream in a small saucepan over low heat until melted, then cool.
Beat eggs, granulated sugar, and salt with an electric mixer on high speed until mixture is thick, pale, and forms a ribbon when beaters are lifted, about 5 minutes with a standing mixer or about 12 minutes with a handheld. Add zest, baking powder, and vanilla and mix on low speed until blended.
Add 1 1/4 cups flour and half of butter mixture and mix on low speed until blended. Mix in remaining butter and 1 1/4 cups flour in same manner. Increase speed to medium and beat 1 minute with a standing mixer or 2 minutes with a handheld, or until batter is thick and sticky. Add berries and carefully fold in with a rubber spatula until barely combined. (Raspberries will begin to fall apart, and batter will look slightly pink.) Spoon batter into baking pan, gently smoothing top. Bake in middle of oven until springy to the touch and a tester inserted into center comes out clean, 45 to 50 minutes. Cool completely in pan on a rack.
Run a knife around edge of cake, then invert rack over cake and flip cake onto it. Remove wax paper and reinvert onto a platter.
Just before serving, dust with confectioners sugar.

Hazelnut Cookies 
1/2 cup hazelnuts (2 oz)
1/4 cup plus 3 tablespoons sugar
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1 stick (1/2 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into small pieces

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Toast hazelnuts in a shallow baking pan until fragrant and skins begin to loosen, about 6 minutes. Rub nuts in a kitchen towel to remove any loose skins (some skins may not come off) and cool to room temperature.
Pulse nuts and 1/4 cup sugar in a food processor until nuts are finely ground, then add flour and a pinch of salt, pulsing until combined. Add butter and pulse until dough just forms a ball. Divide dough in half, then roll dough on a work surface lightly dusted with sugar and flour into 2 (11-inch-long) logs (each about 1 inch wide). Chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, 1 hour.
Cut logs crosswise into 1/2-inch slices and arrange rounds 2 inches apart on 2 baking sheets.
Bake, 1 sheet at a time, until bottom edges just begin to turn pale golden, 12 to 15 minutes. Cool cookies on sheet 2 minutes. Place remaining 3 tablespoons sugar in a small dish and dip tops of cookies in it, then cool sugared cookies on a rack.

Shortbread 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/4 cup superfine granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 cup all-purpose flour
Optional: 1/2 cup chopped toasted nuts

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Blend together butter, sugar, vanilla, and salt in a bowl with a fork until combined well. Sift flour into butter mixture and blend with fork until mixture forms a soft dough.
Transfer dough to an ungreased large baking sheet and pat into a 9- by 4 1/2-inch rectangle. Crimp edges decoratively and prick dough all over with tines of a fork. Score dough crosswise with the back of a knife into 8 sections. If desired, sprinkle with chopped toasted nuts and press gently into dough with your fingertips.
Bake shortbread in middle of oven until edges are golden, about 15 minutes.
Cool shortbread on baking sheet on a rack 10 minutes, then cut into slices (while still warm) with a sharp knife. Transfer slices with a spatula to rack to cool completely.

Swiss Sandwich Cookies (spitzbuben) 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/4 cups confectioners sugar
1 tablespoon vanilla powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 1/2 sticks (1 1/4 cups) unsalted butter, softened
2 teaspoons powdered egg whites
2 tablespoons warm water
1/4 cup sanding or granulated sugar
1/2 cup seedless raspberry jam
1/2 cup apricot preserves, strained

Sift together flour, confectioners sugar, vanilla powder, and salt.
Heat butter with an electric mixer until creamy. Mix in flour mixture at low speed just until blended. Form dough into a disk and chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F.
Roll out dough slightly less than 1/4 inch thick on a lightly floured surface and cut out 1 1/2-inch rounds.
Arrange 1 inch apart on greased baking sheets. Reroll scraps once (cookies become tough if dough is worked too much). Whisk together powdered egg whites and water. Brush cookies with egg whites and sprinkle with sanding sugar.
Bake cookies in batches in middle of oven until pale golden, 10 to 15 minutes, then transfer to a rack to cool.
Sandwich jam and preserves between unsugared sides of cookies, filling half with raspberry and half with apricot.

Dark-Chocolate Mint Cupcakes with White-Chocolate Mint Frosting 
2 cups walnuts, toasted, cooled
1 cup whole-milk ricotta cheese
1/4 cup chopped fresh mint
2 tablespoons honey
1 cup all purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
6 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 1/4 cups sugar
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup whipping cream
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
8 ounces high-quality white chocolate, chopped
1 tablespoon green crème de menthe

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter two 12-cup mini-muffin pans. Using on/off turns, blend first 4 ingredients in processor until walnuts are finely chopped. Whisk flour and baking powder in small bowl. Stir chocolate and butter in heavy small saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth. Cool slightly.
Using electric mixer, beat sugar, eggs, and vanilla in large bowl until very thick, about 4 minutes. Gradually beat in cooled chocolate mixture. Stir in walnut mixture. Spoon 1 1/2 tablespoons batter into each prepared muffin cup.
Bake cupcakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Cool in pan on rack. Cut around cupcakes to loosen; turn out onto work surface. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; store at room temperature.)
Bring cream and butter to simmer in heavy small saucepan over medium heat, stirring until butter melts. Remove from heat. Add white chocolate; stir until melted. Mix in crème de menthe. Transfer frosting to bowl; let frosting cool at room temperature until firm enough to pipe, stirring occasionally, about 2 hours.
Spoon frosting into pastry bag fitted with medium star tip. Pipe frosting decoratively atop cupcakes.

Swedish Dream Cookies (drommar) 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 teaspoon crushed ammonium carbonate (also called baker’s ammonium)
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1 1/2 cups sweetened flaked coconut

Sift together flour and salt.
Beat together butter and sugar with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy. Beat in ammonium carbonate and almond extract until combined well. Mix in flour mixture at low speed just until blended, then stir in coconut. Form dough into a disk and chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F.
Roll dough into 1-inch balls and arrange 1 inch apart on greased baking sheets.
Bake cookies in batches in upper third of oven until pale golden around edges, 18 to 22 minutes. Transfer cookies to a rack to cool.

Chocolate-Amaretto Layer Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
1 18.25-ounce package devil's food cake mix
1 1/3 cups water
3 large eggs
1/2 cup vegetable oil
12 tablespoons amaretto liqueur
3/4 teaspoon almond extract
3 cups semisweet chocolate chips (about 18 ounces)
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup whipping cream
2/3 cup sour cream
1 cup powdered sugar
1 cup slivered almonds, toasted

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Combine cake mix, 1 1/3 cups water, eggs, oil, 3 tablespoons amaretto, and 1/2 teaspoon almond extract in large bowl; whisk until well blended. Mix in 1 cup chocolate chips. Divide batter among prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Cool cakes in pans 10 minutes. Run knife around pan sides. Turn cakes out onto racks; cool completely. Brush each cake layer with 2 tablespoons amaretto.
Combine butter and cream in medium saucepan. Stir over medium-low heat until butter melts and mixture comes to simmer. Remove from heat. Add remaining 2 cups chocolate chips and whisk until melted. Mix in remaining 3 tablespoons amaretto. Cool until barely lukewarm, about 5 minutes. Whisk in sour cream and remaining 1/4 teaspoon almond extract, then powdered sugar. Refrigerate frosting just until thick enough to spread, whisking occasionally, about 10 minutes.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 1/3 cup frosting over. Top with second cake layer. Spread 1/3 cup frosting over. Top with third cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Press nuts around bottom 2 inches of cake. Chill 2 hours. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome; keep chilled.)

Triple-Ginger Layer Cake 
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
3 cups cake flour, sifted
1 cup finely chopped crystallized ginger
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons buttermilk
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
2/3 cup powdered sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 cup minced crystallized ginger

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Spray two 8-inch round cake pans with 2-inch-high sides with nonstick spray. Line bottoms with parchment. Mix flour, crystallized ginger, ground ginger, cinnamon, baking soda and salt in medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating until well blended after each addition. Mix in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk in 3 additions each, scraping down sides of bowl. Beat just until batter is smooth. Divide batter between prepared pans.
Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes. Run small knife around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely. Peel off parchment.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add brown sugar, powdered sugar, cinnamon, ground ginger and vanilla; beat until well blended. Mix in 1/4 cup crystallized ginger.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread 1 cup frosting over. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Sprinkle remaining 1/4 cup crystallized ginger decoratively atop cake. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate. Let stand 2 hours at room temperature before serving.)

Lemon-Pistachio Crunch Cake 
8 large egg yolks
3/4 cup sugar
1/2 cup fresh lemon juice
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
2 tablespoons (packed) grated lemon peel
1/8 teaspoon salt
2/3 cup sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup water
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1cup natural unsalted pistachios (about 5 ounces)
2 1/2 cups chilled whipping cream, divided
8 ounces high-quality white chocolate, chopped
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 1/2 cups cake flour
4 teaspoons baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1 1/4 cups (2 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 cups sugar, divided
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
2 teaspoons grated lemon peel
1 1/2 cups whole milk
8 large egg whites

Whisk all ingredients in heavy medium saucepan to blend. Cook over medium-low heat until curd thickens and candy thermometer registers 170 degrees F, stirring constantly, about 7 minutes (do not boil). Pour curd into small bowl. Press plastic wrap onto surface. Chill at least 1 day and up to 3 days.
Place large sheet of foil on work surface; butter foil. Combine sugar, butter, and 1/4 cup water in heavy medium saucepan. Stir over medium-low heat until sugar dissolves and butter melts, occasionally brushing down sides of pan with wet pastry brush. Increase heat to medium-high and boil until syrup is medium amber color, stirring constantly, about 12 minutes. Remove from heat. Immediately add baking soda (mixture will foam up), then nuts and stir to blend well. Spread nut mixture onto prepared foil, separating nuts. Cool completely. Chop crunch into 1/4- to 1/3-inch pieces. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)
Bring 3/4 cup cream to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and salt; stir until smooth. Transfer frosting base to bowl. Cover; chill overnight.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Sift flour, baking powder, and salt into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Gradually add 1 3/4 cups sugar, beating until well blended. Beat in vanilla and lemon peel. Beat in flour mixture alternately with milk in 3 additions each. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in another large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar, beating until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into batter in 3 additions. Divide batter among prepared pans.
Bake cakes until golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 15 minutes. Cut around pan sides and turn cakes out onto racks. Turn cakes right side up and cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap in foil and store at room temperature.)
Using serrated knife, cut off mounded tops of cake layers to level. Place 1 cake layer on platter, trimmed side up. Spread with half of lemon curd. Top with second cake layer, trimmed side up. Spread with remaining lemon curd. Top with third cake layer, trimmed side down.
Whisk remaining 1 3/4 cups chilled cream into frosting base to loosen. Using electric mixer, beat until frosting holds stiff peaks. Spread frosting over top and sides of cake. Chill until frosting is firm, at least 3 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; keep chilled.)
Press crunch lightly into frosting on sides and top edge of cake. (Can be prepared 1 hour ahead and refrigerated.)

Semolina Walnut Cake with Sour Cherry Compote 
1/2 cup semolina flour
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1 1/3 cups walnuts (4 oz), chopped
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
2/3 cup sugar
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh orange zest
4 large eggs
2/3 cup water
1/2 cup sugar
2 tablespoons fresh orange juice
1 tablespoon honey
2 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
Accompaniment:sour cherry compote

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Pulse flours, 1 cup walnuts, and salt in a food processor until nuts are finely chopped.
Beat together butter, sugar, and zest in a large bowl with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Stir in nut flour and spread batter evenly in a buttered 8-inch square metal pan. Sprinkle evenly with remaining 1/3 cup walnuts.
Bake in middle of oven until golden and a tester comes out clean, 30 to 35 minutes. Transfer pan to a rack. Make syrup while cake bakes:
Simmer all syrup ingredients in a 1-quart saucepan, stirring until sugar is dissolved, 10 to 15 minutes, or until slightly thickened. Finish cake:
Evenly brush warm syrup over hot cake and cool completely in pan on rack. Cut into diamonds.

Stilton Cheesecake with Rhubarb Compote 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 cup sugar
7 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes and softened
1/2 lb Stilton, rind discarded and cheese crumbled (1 cup)
3 (8 ounce) packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
3 large eggs
1 (8 ounce) container sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla
1/2 cup Port
1/2 cup sugar
24 pink peppercorns, coarsely crushed
2 pounds trimmed rhubarb, cut into 1/2-inch cubes (6 cups)
3 tablespoons sugar for caramel topping (optional)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Blend together flour and sugar with an electric mixer. Add butter and blend until mixture resembles coarse meal (it will not form a dough). Transfer to a buttered 24-centimeter springform pan and press evenly onto bottom. Bake in middle of oven until pale golden, about 30 minutes, then cool in pan on a rack.
Reduce temperature to 300 degrees F.
Beat together crumbled Stilton, cream cheese, and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer on low speed. Beat in flour and add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in sour cream and vanilla, then pour filling over cooled crust in pan.
Bake cheesecake in middle of oven until puffed and pale golden around edge, about 1‚ hours. Transfer cake in pan to rack and run a knife around edge of pan to loosen. Cool completely, about 2 hours. Chill, covered, until cold, at least 4 hours. Remove side of pan and transfer cake to a plate.
Boil Port, 1/2 cup sugar, and peppercorns in a 12-inch nonstick skillet, stirring until sugar is dissolved, until reduced to about 1/2 cup, 2 to 3 minutes. Add rhubarb and gently stir to coat. Simmer rhubarb, stirring gently once after 5 minutes, until just tender but not falling apart, about 10 minutes, and transfer to a bowl. Chill compote, covered, until cold, at least 4 hours.
Just before serving, sprinkle tablespoons sugar evenly over cheesecake and heat with a blowtorch, moving flame back and forth just over sugar until evenly melted and caramelized.

Candied-Orange Wafers 
1/2 stick (4 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 cup minced candied orange zest
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
2 large egg whites
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
Silpat or Exopat nonstick pad

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Beat together butter, sugar, zest, and vanilla with an electric mixer on high speed until light and fluffy. Reduce speed to low and beat in egg whites. (Mixture will look curdled.) Whisk in flour just until incorporated.
Drop 4 rounded tablespoons of batter about 3 inches apart on a baking sheet lined with nonstick pad. Spread batter evenly into 4‚- to 5-inch circles with back of a spoon dipped in cold water. Bake cookies in middle of oven, turning sheet 180 degrees halfway through baking, until golden brown, about 10 minutes total.
Cool cookies 30 seconds on baking sheet (to facilitate removal), then carefully remove cookies with a thin metal spatula and immediately drape over a rolling pin to create a curved shape. (If cookies become too brittle to drape over rolling pin, return to oven a few seconds to soften.) When cool, transfer cookies to an airtight container. Make more cookies in same manner, cooling and cleaning nonstick pad and baking sheet between batches.

Sour Cream Coffeecake 
2 cups all-purpose flour plus additional for dusting pan
1 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1 cup walnuts (3 1/2 oz), toasted
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened, plus 2 tablespoons melted
2 large eggs at room temperature for 30 minutes
1 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla
a 10-cup bundt pan (10 inches in diameter)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter bundt pan and dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, salt, and baking powder in a bowl.
Pulse walnuts, cinnamon, 1/4 cup sugar, and a pinch of salt in a food processor until nuts are chopped. Add melted butter and pulse once to combine.
Beat together remaining 1 1/2 sticks butter and remaining cup sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes in a standing mixer or 5 minutes with a handheld. Reduce speed to medium and add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in sour cream and vanilla until smooth and fluffy, about 2 minutes more in a standing mixer or 4 minutes more with a handheld. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture, scraping down side of bowl occasionally and mixing until just combined.
Sprinkle half of nut mixture evenly in bottom of bundt pan. Spoon half of batter over nuts and smooth with a rubber spatula. Sprinkle batter in pan with remaining nut mixture and top with remaining batter, smoothing top. Bake in middle of oven until cake begins to pull away from side of pan and a tester comes out clean, 45 to 50 minutes.
Cool cake in pan on a rack 1 hour, then run a thin knife around outer and inner edges. Place rack on top of pan, then flip to invert cake onto rack. Cool completely.

Honey Cake 
1 3/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1 cup honey (preferably buckwheat)
2/3 cup vegetable oil
1/2 cup freshly brewed strong coffee, cooled
2 large eggs
1/4 cup packed brown sugar
2 tablespoons whiskey or bourbon
a 9- by 5- by 3-inch loaf pan

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat to 350 degrees F. Oil loaf pan well and dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Whisk together flour, cinnamon, baking soda, salt, baking powder, and ginger in a small bowl. Whisk together honey, oil, and coffee in another bowl until well combined.
Beat together eggs and brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed 3 minutes. Reduce speed to low, then add honey mixture and whiskey and mix until blended, about 1 minute. Add flour mixture and mix until just combined. Finish mixing batter with a rubber spatula, scraping bottom of bowl.
Pour batter into loaf pan (batter will be thin) and bake 30 minutes. Cover top loosely with foil and continue to bake until cake begins to pull away from sides of pan and a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out clean, about 30 minutes more. Cool on a rack 1 hour.
Run a knife around side of cake, then invert rack over pan and invert cake onto rack. Turn cake right side up and cool completely.

Spiced Tuiles 
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
1/4 cup packed light brown sugar
3 tablespoons light corn syrup
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
1/8 teaspoon salt
a small offset spatula; a long rolling pin (2 inches in diameter)

Bring butter, brown sugar, and corn syrup to a boil in a 1- to 1 1/2-quart heavy saucepan over moderate heat, stirring. Add flour and cook, stirring constantly, until dough is slightly thickened, about 1 minute. Stir in cinnamon, cardamom, and salt and cool to warm, 15 to 20 minutes.
While dough cools, put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Lightly butter a large baking sheet.
Drop teaspoons of dough about 3 inches apart onto baking sheet and pat each into a 2 1/2-inch round with your fingertips. Bake until golden and most of bubbling has subsided, 6 to 8 minutes (cookies will spread to about 3 inches).
Let cookies stand on baking sheet until just firm enough to hold their shape, about 2 minutes. Gently loosen cookies 1 at a time with offset spatula and immediately drape over rolling pin. (If cookies become too brittle to drape onto rolling pin, return baking sheet to oven for a few seconds to soften.) Cool cookies completely on rolling pin, about 1 minute, then transfer to a platter. Make and shape more cookies with remaining dough.

Pumpkin Cake with Sage Ice Cream and Pumpkin Cherry Compote 
2 cups heavy cream
2 cups half-and-half
1/3 cup coarsely chopped fresh sage
4 (2- by 1/2-inch) strips lemon zest
9 large egg yolks
3/4 cup granulated sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons ground allspice
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups packed light brown sugar
4 large eggs
1 cup safflower or canola oil
1 1/2 cups fresh pumpkin purée or canned solid-pack pumpkin
1/2 cup dried tart cherries
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon salt
2 lb fresh pumpkin (preferably sugar or cheese pumpkin), peeled, seeded, and cut into 1/4-inch dice (2 cups)
Accompaniment: arrop (Spanish candied pumpkin) syrup*
Garnish: confectioners sugar
an instant-read or candy thermometer; an ice cream maker; a 3-inch cookie cutter

Bring cream, half-and-half, sage, and zest to a boil in a large heavy saucepan over moderate heat. Remove from heat and steep, covered, 10 minutes.
Whisk together yolks, granulated sugar, and salt in a large bowl. Whisk in half of hot cream, then whisk egg mixture into remaining cream in saucepan. Cook custard over moderate heat, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, until it coats back of spoon and reaches 170 degrees F on thermometer, about 5 minutes (do not let boil).
Pour custard through a fine sieve into a bowl and cool, stirring occasionally. Chill custard, its surface covered with plastic wrap, until cold, at least 3 hours.
Freeze custard in ice cream maker, then transfer to an airtight container and put in freezer to harden.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Butter a 13- by 9- by 2-inch metal baking pan. Line bottom with wax or parchment paper, then butter paper.
Sift together flour, cinnamon, allspice, baking soda, and salt. Whisk together brown sugar and eggs in a large bowl, then whisk in oil and pumpkin purée. 3Add flour mixture and whisk just until smooth. Pour batter into baking pan and bake in middle of oven until springy to the touch and a tester inserted in center comes out clean, 25 to 30 minutes.
Cool cake in pan on a rack 10 minutes, then run a knife around edge and invert onto rack. Peel off paper and cool cake completely.
Soak cherries in hot water to cover until softened, about 15 minutes, then drain.
Melt butter in a large skillet over moderate heat. Add sugars, lemon juice, cinnamon, and salt, then cook, stirring until smooth. Add pumpkin and drained cherries and simmer, covered, stirring occasionally, until pumpkin is tender, 8 to 12 minutes.
Cut out 12 (3-inch) rounds from cake with cutter. Halve each round horizontally, then put bottom halves on 12 plates and top with scoops of ice cream. Spoon compote on and around cakes, then tilt tops against ice cream.

Madeleines 
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled, plus additional for brushing molds
1 1/4 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
2/3 cup granulated sugar
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh lemon zest
Confectioners sugar for dusting
3 madeleine pans, each with 12 (1/8-cup) molds

Set oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Brush molds with some melted butter.
Sift together flour, baking powder, and salt.
Beat eggs in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until light and foamy, about 30 seconds with a standing mixer or 1 minute with a handheld, then beat in vanilla. Gradually add granulated sugar, beating constantly at high speed, and continue to beat until mixture is tripled in volume, about 3 minutes with standing mixer or 5 minutes with handheld.
Sift flour mixture in 3 or 4 batches over egg, folding in each batch until just combined. Then fold in zest and 3/4 cup melted butter.
Spoon a rounded tablespoon of batter into each mold (they will be about two-thirds full) and bake in upper and lower thirds of oven (2 pans will fit on 1 rack), switching position of pans halfway through baking, until golden around edges and a tester inserted in centers comes out clean, 10 to 12 minutes total.
Invert madeleines onto a rack and dust scalloped sides with confectioners sugar.

Chocolate Orange Petits Fours 
1 cup all-purpose flour
2/3 cup packed dark brown sugar
2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
7 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), finely chopped
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
2 large eggs
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh orange zest
1/2 cup chilled heavy cream
1 teaspoon sugar
4 navel orange segments, membranes discarded from each and fruit cut into 1/4-inch pieces
2 (12-inch-long) sheets of parchment paper; a 1 1/2-inch round fluted cookie cutter

Whisk together flour, brown sugar, cocoa powder, and salt in a bowl.
Melt chocolate and butter in a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water, stirring occasionally, until smooth. Remove bowl from heat and stir in eggs, zest, and flour mixture until just combined. (Dough will be soft.)
Roll out dough between parchment sheets into an 8-inch round (1/2 inch thick). Transfer round (still in parchment) to a large baking sheet and chill until firm, at least 1 hour, or freeze at least 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Remove top sheet of parchment paper and replace it loosely. Flip over paper-enclosed round and discard paper now on top. Cut out about 20 cookies with cookie cutter and arrange about 1 inch apart on a buttered large baking sheet. Reroll scraps between parchment sheets and cut out 12 more cookies (chill or freeze dough as needed if it becomes too soft to handle).
Bake cookies in middle of oven until matte (dough will start out shiny and turn dull), about 10 minutes, then transfer with a spatula to a rack to cool completely. (Cookies will have a fudgy consistency.)
Beat cream and sugar with an electric mixer until it just holds stiff peaks. Top each cookie with 1/2 teaspoon cream and a piece of orange.

Hazelnut and Almond Macaroons with Orange Semifreddo 
3 large egg whites
3/4 cup superfine granulated sugar
1/2 cup coarsely chopped blanched almonds (2 3/4 oz), toasted
1/2 cup coarsely chopped hazelnuts (2 ounces), toasted
9 oranges
4 large egg yolks
3/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons potato starch
1 orange
2/3 cup sugar
2/3 cup dry white wine
1/4 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
parchment paper, a large pastry bag fitted with a 1-inch plain tip, and an ice-cream maker

Preheat oven to 200 degrees F. Line a large baking sheet with parchment paper. Draw or trace 12 (3-inch) circles 1 inch apart on parchment and turn paper over on baking sheet.
Put egg whites in a metal bowl set over a pan of simmering water and gently whisk constantly until barely warm. Remove bowl from heat and beat whites with a pinch of salt with an electric mixer until they just hold soft peaks. Gradually add 1/2 cup superfine sugar, beating until whites just hold stiff, glossy peaks. Fold in remaining 1/4 cup sugar, then nuts.
Transfer meringue to pastry bag and pipe 12 rounds of meringue inside drawn circles on parchment. Bake in middle of oven until dry to the touch and crisp, about 1 1/2 hours. If macaroons are not crisp after 1 1/2 hours, turn off oven and let stand in oven 30 to 40 minutes more. Peel macaroons off parchment and transfer to a rack to cool (macaroons may stick if cooled on paper).
Finely grate enough zest from oranges to measure 1 1/2 teaspoons. Squeeze 2 cups juice.
Whisk together yolks, sugar, and potato starch in a 1-quart heavy saucepan. Gradually add juice, whisking until smooth. Cook over moderate heat, whisking constantly, until thickened and registers 170 degrees F on an instant-read thermometer, 5 to 6 minutes. Pour through a very fine sieve into a metal bowl and stir in zest. Set bowl in a larger bowl of ice and cold water and stir occasionally until mixture is cold.
Freeze in ice-cream maker until soft-frozen. Spread semifreddo on flat (bottom) side of 6 macaroons and top with remaining macaroons, flat sides down. Wrap each in plastic wrap and freeze until ready to serve.
Remove zest from orange with a vegetable peeler, then remove any white pith from zest. Julienne zest. Squeeze 1 tablespoon juice.
Cover zest with cold water in a small saucepan and bring to a boil. Drain in a sieve and rinse under cold water. Pat dry.
Cook sugar in a dry 1-quart heavy saucepan over moderate heat, undisturbed, until it begins to melt. Continue to cook, stirring occasionally with a fork, until sugar is melted into a deep golden caramel.
While caramel is cooking, bring wine and zest to a boil in a small saucepan. Tilt caramel pan and carefully pour in wine with zest (caramel will harden and steam vigorously). Cook over moderately low heat, stirring, until caramel is dissolved. Stir in orange and lemon juices, then cool.
Let filled macaroons soften 20 to 25 minutes at room temperature, then serve with wine syrup.

Meringue Petits Fours with Anise Cream and Pomegranate 
2 large egg whites
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup superfine granulated sugar
2 teaspoons regular granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon anise seeds
1/2 cup chilled heavy cream
1/4 cup pomegranate seeds
a pastry bag fitted with 1/3-inch plain tip; parchment paper; an electric coffee/spice grinder

Preheat oven to 175 degrees F.
Beat egg whites with salt using an electric mixer at high speed until they just hold stiff peaks. Add superfine sugar a little at a time, beating at high speed, and continue to beat until whites hold stiff, glossy peaks.
Spoon meringue into pastry bag and pipe 1 1/4-inch-wide disks (about 1/3 inch high) about 1/2 inch apart on a parchment-lined baking sheet.
Bake meringues in middle of oven until dry but still white, about 1 1/2 hours, then cool in turned-off oven (with door closed) 1 hour. Transfer meringues on baking sheet to a rack to cool completely.
Finely grind regular sugar with anise in coffee/spice grinder. Beat cream in a bowl with cleaned beaters until it just holds soft peaks, then add anise sugar, beating until it just holds stiff peaks.
Peel meringues from parchment, then dollop 1 teaspoon cream onto each meringue and top with 3 pomegranate seeds.

Five-Spice Fortune Cookies 
Butter for baking sheets
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon five-spice powder*
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 large egg whites
about 16 (3- by 1/2-inch) strips of white paper and a pen with nontoxic ink

Write fortunes on strips of paper.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat to 400 degrees F. Butter a 6-inch-wide strip lengthwise across middle of 2 baking sheets (from one short side to the other).
Sift together flour, five-spice powder, and a pinch of salt into a bowl and stir in sugar.
Whisk egg whites in a bowl just until foamy. Add flour mixture and whisk until smooth.
Put 2 teaspoons batter on 1 side of buttered area of 1 baking sheet and spread evenly into a round about 3 1/2 inches in diameter using back of a spoon or a small offset spatula. Place 2 teaspoons more batter on other half of buttered area and form another round.
Bake rounds until golden around edge and paler gold in center, 5 to 6 minutes. Remove rounds from oven and, working quickly, flip 1 cookie over on baking sheet with a spatula. Transfer same cookie to a work surface, then put a fortune in center of inverted cookie and fold cookie in half (cookie will be hot). Lift up cookie with both hands by corners and press center of folded bottom edge perpendicularly against the edge of a countertop, making a crease. Continue folding in same direction to bring corners together to create a C shape. Hold for a few seconds while cookie cools and shape sets, then set aside to cool. Quickly invert and fold second hot cookie, this time working on baking sheet to keep cookie warm and malleable.
Make 2 more cookies in same manner on second buttered baking sheet, then continue with remaining batter, using a buttered cool baking sheet for each batch.
*Available at Asian markets and specialty foods shops.

Rhubarb Streusel Cakes 
3/4 cup all-purpose flour
2/3 cup packed brown sugar
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon salt
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1/2 lb fresh rhubarb stalks, cut into 1/4-inch dice
3 tablespoons confectioners sugar
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon salt
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup whole milk
a nonstick muffin pan with 12 (1/2-cup) muffin cups

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Generously butter muffin cups and top of pan.
Whisk together flour, brown sugar, cinnamon, and salt in a bowl. Blend in butter with your fingertips until mixture forms small clumps.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt in a bowl. Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until blended, about 2 minutes. Add eggs and vanilla and beat until fluffy, about 1 minute. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture and milk alternately in 2 batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and mixing until just combined.
Divide batter among muffin cups (each cup will be about half full). Toss rhubarb with confectioners sugar and sprinkle batter with rhubarb, then crumble streusel evenly on top. Bake in middle of oven until tops are golden and a tester inserted in center of a cake comes out clean, 22 to 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pan on a rack 3 minutes, then loosen edges of cakes with a small sharp knife or small metal spatula. Remove cakes from pan and put on rack to cool slightly.

Blackberry Upside-Down Cake 
2 1/2 cups fresh blackberries (12 ounces)
1/2 cup plus 1 1/2 tablespoons sugar
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 large egg
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 cup well-shaken buttermilk
Accompaniment: vanilla ice cream
parchment paper

Preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Line bottom of a buttered 8- by 2-inch round cake pan with 2 rounds of parchment paper, then butter parchment. Dust pan with some flour, knocking out excess.
Arrange blackberries in 1 layer in cake pan. Sprinkle berries with 11/2 tablespoons sugar and shake pan to help distribute sugar.
Whisk together 1 cup flour, baking soda, and salt in a bowl. Beat together butter and remaining 1/2 cup sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until light and fluffy, about 2 minutes. Add egg and vanilla and mix at low speed until just incorporated. Alternately add flour mixture and buttermilk in 3 batches, mixing at low speed until just incorporated.
Spoon batter evenly over berries, smoothing top, and bake in middle of oven until top is golden and a tester comes out clean, 30 to 35 minutes.
Run a thin knife around edge of pan, then invert a large plate over pan and, using pot holders to hold plate and pan together tightly, flip cake onto plate. Peel off parchment and serve cake with ice cream.

Chocolate-Almond Torte 
1/2 cup sugar plus additional for dusting
1 3/4 cups whole unblanched almonds (9 ounces), finely ground
3 ounces fine-quality bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, coarsely grated
Pinch of ground cloves
Pinch of ground cinnamon
Pinch of ground allspice
5 large egg yolks
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh lemon zest
4 large egg whites
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 ounces fine-quality bittersweet or semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1/3 cup slivered blanched almonds
a 12-inch-long metal Rehrucken mold

Preheat oven to 350 degrees . Butter mold and dust with sugar, knocking out excess.
Stir together ground almonds, chocolate, and spices in a bowl. Beat yolks with 1/4 cup sugar in another bowl with an electric mixer until thick and pale, then beat in zest.
Beat whites with salt with cleaned beaters in a large bowl until they just hold soft peaks. Gradually beat in remaining 1/4 cup sugar and beat until whites just hold stiff peaks.
Stir one third of whites into yolk mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining whites in 2 more batches. Fold in ground almond mixture.
Pour batter into mold and bake in middle of oven until golden and a tester comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool cake in mold on a rack 10 minutes, then invert onto rack and cool completely.
Melt chocolate with 1 tablespoon butter in a small heavy saucepan over very low heat, stirring. Remove from heat and add remaining 5 tablespoons butter, 1 tablespoon at a time, stirring until smooth. Transfer icing to a bowl and chill, covered, until slightly thickened and spreadable, about 30 minutes.
Spread icing over cake with a small metal spatula. Stick points of almonds into cake in straight rows, following ridges, to resemble a porcupine. Chill cake until icing is set, at least 1 hour. Transfer cake to a platter and bring to room temperature before serving.

Pignoli Cookies 
2 (8-oz) cans almond paste (not marzipan), coarsely crumbled
1 1/2 cups confectioners sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 large egg whites
2 tablespoons mild honey
1 cup pine nuts (pignoli ; 4 1/2 oz)
N/A
N/A parchment paper
a standing electric mixer; a large pastry bag fitted with 1/2-inch plain tip (optional); parchment paper

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Pulse almond paste in a food processor until broken up into small bits, then add confectioners sugar and salt and continue to pulse until finely ground, about 1 minute.
Beat together almond mixture, egg whites, and honey in electric mixer at medium-high speed until smooth, about 5 minutes (batter will be very thick).
Spoon half of batter into pastry bag if using (keep remaining batter covered with a dampened paper towel) and pipe or spoon 1 1/2-inch rounds about 1 inch apart onto 2 parchment-lined baking sheets. Gently press half of pine nuts into tops of cookies.
Bake cookies in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until golden, 12 to 15 minutes total. Slide cookies on parchment onto racks to cool completely, then peel cookies from parchment. Make more cookies with remaining batter and pine nuts on cooled baking sheets.

Snowballs 
2 cups sweetened flaked coconut (4 oz)
1 cup finely grated unsweetened coconut (3 oz)
2/3 cup granulated sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 large egg whites
2 teaspoons water
30 (1/2-inch) squares fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened; from a 3 1/2-oz bar)
About 1/2 cup confectioners sugar
parchment paper

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Pulse sweetened and unsweetened coconuts, granulated sugar, and salt together in a food processor until flaked coconut is finely chopped. Add whites and water and pulse until mixture is moistened and holds together when squeezed.
Roll level tablespoons of coconut mixture into balls with wet hands (you'll need to rinse your hands every 3 or 4 balls). Make an indentation in center of each ball and insert a piece of chocolate, then pinch hole closed and reroll into a ball. Arrange balls 1 inch apart on a parchment-lined large baking sheet.
Bake macaroons in middle of oven until bottoms are golden and balls are puffed but still white, 13 to 15 minutes. Slide macaroons on parchment to a rack to cool completely, then peel off paper. Dust macaroons lightly with confectioners sugar just before serving.

Miniature Almond Cakes with Sugared Cherries and Kirsch Cream 
4 large egg yolks
3/4 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons milk
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 large egg whites
4 teaspoons powdered egg whites
1/4 cup warm water
3/4 cup superfine granulated sugar
20 sweet cherries with stems attached
1/2 cup chilled heavy cream
1 tablespoon kirsch
1 teaspoon granulated sugar
a 1- to 1 1/2-inch round cookie cutter

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter a 9-inch square cake pan and line bottom with parchment or wax paper. Butter paper and dust pan with flour, knocking out excess.
Whisk together yolks, 1/2 cup sugar, milk, and extract in a large bowl until combined well, then whisk in flour and salt.
Beat whites with an electric mixer at high speed until they just hold soft peaks. Gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar, mixing at low speed until whites just hold stiff peaks. Stir about one third of whites into batter to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Pour batter into cake pan, spreading evenly, and bake in middle of oven until pale golden and a tester comes out clean, 14 to 16 minutes. Cool cake completely in pan on a rack.
Whisk together powdered egg whites and warm water in a small bowl until combined well. Put superfine sugar in another small bowl.
Holding 1 cherry by stem, brush evenly with some egg white and spoon sugar over it to coat. Transfer to a rack to dry and coat remaining cherries in same manner.
Beat cream with kirsch and sugar using cleaned beaters until it holds stiff peaks.
Cut out 20 rounds from cake with cookie cutter and transfer to a platter. Top each round with a teaspoon of kirsch cream, then top cream with a cherry.

Streusel Sour Cream Coffeecakes 
3/4 cup granulated sugar
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup packed light brown sugar
2 sticks (1 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 1/2 cups (6 oz) pecans, toasted and chopped
1 cup sour cream
1 whole large egg
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons finely grated fresh orange zest
2 muffin tins, each with 12 (1/2-cup) muffin cups

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Stir together granulated sugar, flour, salt, and 3/4 cup brown sugar in a large bowl, then blend in 1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) butter with your fingertips or a pastry blender until mixture resembles coarse meal with some pea-size butter lumps. Transfer 3/4 cup to a bowl and blend in cinnamon, remaining 1/2 stick (1/4 cup) butter, and remaining 1/4 cup brown sugar with your fingertips or pastry blender until crumbly. Stir in pecans, then chill streusel topping 15 minutes.
Whisk together sour cream, whole egg, yolk, vanilla, baking soda, and zest, then stir into remaining flour mixture until just combined (batter will be stiff).
Divide batter among 18 well-buttered muffin cups (they'll be about two-thirds full; butter tops of tins as well). Sprinkle each with streusel topping, pressing it lightly into batter. Bake coffeecakes in middle of oven until golden brown and a toothpick inserted in center comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes. Cool in pans on racks 30 minutes. Loosen cakes with a sharp small knife, then carefully remove cakes from pans.

Frozen Passion Fruit Meringue Cake 
4 large egg whites at room temperature for 30 minutes
1 cup sugar
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1/2 teaspoon cornstarch
3/4 cup thawed frozen passion-fruit pulp*
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 whole large egg
6 large egg yolks
1 1/2 cups chilled heavy cream
a 15- by 12-inch sheet of parchment paper; a pastry bag with a 1/3-inch plain tip and an 1/8-inch plain tip; a long thin platter or a foil-wrapped cardboard rectangle (at least 15 by 4 inches)

Preheat oven to 275 degrees F.
Draw 3 (14- by 3-inch) rectangles, about 3/4 inch apart, on parchment. Turn paper over (rectangles will be visible) and put it on a lightly buttered large baking sheet.
Beat whites with a pinch of salt in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until they hold soft peaks. Beat in sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, then increase speed to high and continue beating until whites hold stiff glossy peaks, about 4 minutes with a standing mixer or 8 to 10 minutes with a handheld. Transfer meringue to pastry bag fitted with 1/3-inch tip and fill in rectangles completely. Gently smooth tops, then bake in middle of oven until firm and very pale golden, 45 to 60 minutes. Slide meringue layers (on parchment) onto a large rack. Cool completely, then carefully peel off parchment.
Melt butter with cornstarch, passion-fruit pulp, and 3/4 cup sugar in a 2-quart heavy saucepan over moderately low heat, stirring until sugar is dissolved.
Whisk together whole egg and yolks in a large bowl until combined, then add butter mixture in a stream, whisking. Transfer mixture to saucepan and cook over moderately low heat, whisking constantly, until thick enough to hold mark of whisk and first bubble appears on surface, 3 to 5 minutes. Transfer curd immediately to a metal bowl set in a larger bowl of ice and cold water and cool, stirring occasionally, until cold.
Beat cream with remaining 2 tablespoons sugar with electric mixer until it just holds stiff peaks. Fold 2 cups whipped cream into curd gently but thoroughly to form a mousse (for filling and icing).
Transfer 3/4 cup whipped cream to a small bowl and reserve, chilled, for cream layer. Fold 1/2 cup mousse into remaining whipped cream, then transfer to cleaned pastry bag fitted with 1/8-inch tip and reserve, chilled, for decorative icing.
Arrange 1 meringue layer, flat side down, on platter and spread evenly with 3/4 cup mousse. Cover with another meringue layer and spread evenly with reserved whipped cream. Cover with remaining meringue layer, flat side up, and spread remaining mousse evenly over top and sides of cake, smoothing with a cake spatula. Pipe icing decoratively on top of cake, then freeze, uncovered, until firm, at least 3 hours.
About 1 hour before serving, put cake in refrigerator to soften slightly.

Rugelach 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
8 oz cream cheese, softened
1/2 cup plus 4 teaspoons sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 cup apricot preserves or raspberry jam
1 cup loosely packed golden raisins, chopped
1 1/4 cups walnuts (1/4 lb), finely chopped
Milk for brushing cookies
parchment paper; a small offset spatula

Whisk together flour and salt in a bowl. Beat together butter and cream cheese in a large bowl with an electric mixer until combined well. Add flour mixture and stir with a wooden spoon until a soft dough forms. Gather dough into a ball and wrap in plastic wrap, then flatten (in wrap) into a roughly 7- by 5-inch rectangle. Chill until firm, 8 to 24 hours.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line bottom of a 1- to 1 1/2-inch-deep large shallow baking pan with parchment paper.
Cut dough into 4 pieces. Chill 3 pieces, wrapped in plastic wrap, and roll out remaining piece into a 12- by 8-inch rectangle on a well-floured surface with a floured rolling pin. Transfer dough to a sheet of parchment, then transfer to a tray and chill while rolling out remaining dough in same manner, transferring each to another sheet of parchment and stacking on tray.
Whisk 1/2 cup sugar with cinnamon.
Arrange 1 dough rectangle on work surface with a long side nearest you. Spread 1/4 cup preserves evenly over dough with offset spatula. Sprinkle 1/4 cup raisins and a rounded 1/4 cup walnuts over jam, then sprinkle with 2 tablespoons cinnamon sugar.
Using parchment as an aid, roll up dough tightly into a log. Place, seam side down, in lined baking pan, then pinch ends closed and tuck underneath. Make 3 more logs in same manner and arrange 1 inch apart in pan. Brush logs with milk and sprinkle each with 1 teaspoon of remaining granulated sugar. With a sharp large knife, make 3/4-inch-deep cuts crosswise in dough (not all the way through) at 1-inch intervals. (If dough is too soft to cut, chill until firmer, 20 to 30 minutes.)
Bake until golden, 45 to 50 minutes. Cool to warm in pan on a rack, about 30 minutes, then transfer logs to a cutting board and slice cookies all the way through.

Cheesecake 
2 1/2 (8-oz) packages cream cheese (1 1/4 lb), softened
1 1/4 sticks (1/2 cup plus 2 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened, plus additional for pan
1 1/2 cups sugar
8 large eggs, separated
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh lemon zest
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 teaspoon orange-flower water*
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1/4 cup cornstarch
parchment paper cut into a 10-inch round and a 32- by 5-inch strip; a 10-inch (26-cm) springform pan

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Butter bottom and side of springform pan. Line bottom with round of parchment and butter round. Butter 1 side of parchment strip and fit unbuttered side of strip against buttered side of pan. (Strip will extend 2 inches above rim of pan.)
Beat together cream cheese, butter, 3/4 cup sugar, egg yolks, zest, juice, vanilla, orange-flower water, and almond extract in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until creamy, about 2 minutes in a standing mixer or 3 minutes with a handheld. Add cornstarch and mix at low speed until just combined.
Beat egg whites in another large bowl with cleaned beaters at medium speed until whites just hold soft peaks. Add remaining 3/4 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon at a time, beating, then increase speed to high and continue beating until meringue holds stiff, glossy peaks, about 2 minutes in standing mixer or 3 minutes with handheld.
Fold one fourth of whites into cream cheese mixture to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Line outside of springform pan with foil (covering bottom and about 1 inch up side) to waterproof. Pour batter into pan and gently smooth top. Bake in a hot water bath in middle of oven until top is golden but cake trembles slightly when pan is shaken gently, 55 to 65 minutes. (Cheesecake will rise in oven, but then will fall slightly and set as it cools.) Transfer springform pan to a rack to cool completely, then chill, loosely covered, at least 8 hours.
Available at some supermarkets and Kalustyan's (800-352-3451).

Madeleines 
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled, plus additional for brushing molds
1 1/4 cups sifted cake flour (not self-rising; sift before measuring)
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
2/3 cup granulated sugar
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh lemon zest
Confectioners sugar for dusting
3 madeleine pans, each with 12 (1/8-cup) molds

Set oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Brush molds with some melted butter.
Sift together flour, baking powder, and salt.
Beat eggs in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until light and foamy, about 30 seconds with a standing mixer or 1 minute with a handheld, then beat in vanilla. Gradually add granulated sugar, beating constantly at high speed, and continue to beat until mixture is tripled in volume, about 3 minutes with standing mixer or 5 minutes with handheld.
Sift flour mixture in 3 or 4 batches over egg, folding in each batch until just combined. Then fold in zest and 3/4 cup melted butter.
Spoon a rounded tablespoon of batter into each mold (they will be about two-thirds full) and bake in upper and lower thirds of oven (2 pans will fit on 1 rack), switching position of pans halfway through baking, until golden around edges and a tester inserted in centers comes out clean, 10 to 12 minutes total.
Invert madeleines onto a rack and dust scalloped sides with confectioners sugar.

Honey Cake 
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 teaspoons cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
3 large eggs
1 cup honey
1 cup sugar
1 cup vegetable oil
1/2 cup brewed coffee
1/4 cup water

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and generously butter a 12-cup bundt pan.
Into a large bowl sift together flour, baking powder, cinnamon, baking soda, salt, and cloves. In a small bowl lightly beat eggs. Make a well in center of flour mixture and add eggs with remaining ingredients, whisking until combined well.
Pour batter into pan and bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, about 50 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 20 minutes and turn out onto rack to cool completely. Cake may be kept in an airtight container at room temperature 1 week.

Strawberry and Cream Cake with Cardamom Syrup 
8 large egg yolks
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/4 cup whole milk
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/2 teaspoon finely grated fresh lemon zest
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
4 large egg whites
1 1/2 cups Muscat de Beaumes-de-Venise or Essensia (orange-flavored Muscat wine)
1/4 cup sugar
3/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
2 cups chilled heavy cream
1/2 cup sour cream
2 tablespoons sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/2 pound strawberries, 5 left whole and remainder trimmed and cut lengthwise into 1/4-inch-thick slices
3 (9- by 2-inch) round cake pans; parchment paper

Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter cake pans. Line bottom of each with a round of parchment paper, then butter parchment and dust cake pans with flour, knocking out excess.
Whisk together yolks, 1 cup sugar, milk, vanilla, and zest in a large bowl until smooth. Whisk in flour and salt until combined (batter will be thick).
Beat whites with a pinch of salt in a bowl using an electric mixer at medium-high speed until they just hold soft peaks. Add remaining 1/2 cup sugar, a little at a time, beating at medium speed, and continue to beat until whites hold stiff glossy peaks, about 2 minutes more.
Fold about one third of whites into batter to lighten, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Divide batter among cake pans and bake, switching position of cake pans halfway through baking, until cakes are springy to the touch and a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center of each comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks 10 minutes, then invert onto racks. Carefully peel off parchment, then cool cakes completely.
Bring wine, sugar, and cardamom to a boil in a 1-quart heavy saucepan, stirring until sugar is dissolved, then boil until reduced to about 1 cup, 6 to 8 minutes. Strain syrup through a fine-mesh sieve and cool completely.
Beat together heavy cream, sour cream, sugar, and vanilla in a bowl with cleaned beaters until cream just holds stiff peaks.
Prick cake layers all over with wooden pick or skewer, then brush or pour syrup, little by little, evenly over each layer, letting syrup be absorbed before adding more.
Transfer 1 layer (flat side up) to a cake stand or plate, then spread with a rounded cup of cream. Arrange some sliced strawberries in 1 layer over cream. Turn second layer over and spread a thin layer of cream over top, then place it, with the aid of a spatula, cream side down, over layer of strawberries. Continue making layers with cream, strawberries, and cake in same manner. Spread top with remaining cream and decorate with remaining strawberries.

Baked Alaska Saint Pierre 
1/3 cup sweet orange marmalade
1 qt superpremium vanilla ice cream, softened slightly
1 pint orange sorbet, softened slightly
1/2 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
1/4 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs at room temperature for 30 minutes
1/2 cup sugar
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh orange zest
2 teaspoons Grand Marnier
3 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled
7 large egg whites
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1 1/4 cups sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 eggshell half, cleaned
2 tablespoons Grand Marnier
2 (8- by 2-inch) round cake pans; a 9- by 2-inch round cake pan; a round cake pan or plate at least 10 inches in diameter

Beat marmalade into vanilla ice cream in a bowl with a wooden spoon until combined, then spread in an 8-inch cake pan. Spread sorbet in other 8-inch cake pan. Cover pans with plastic wrap and freeze until firm, at least 3 hours.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch cake pan and line bottom with a round of parchment or wax paper, then butter paper.
Sift flour and salt into a bowl.
Heat eggs and sugar in a large metal bowl set over a pot of simmering water, gently whisking constantly, until lukewarm and sugar is dissolved.
Remove bowl from pot and add zest and liqueur, then beat with an electric mixer at high speed until very thick, pale, and tripled in volume (about 7 minutes in a stand mixer or 10 minutes with a handheld). If using a tall narrow bowl, transfer to a large wide bowl (to facilitate folding). Resift flour and salt over eggs in 2 batches, folding gently but thoroughly after each batch. Fold butter into about 1 cup batter in a small bowl until just combined, then fold butter mixture into remaining batter gently but thoroughly until just combined. Spread in buttered pan, smoothing top.
Bake cake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out clean, about 15 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack 5 minutes, then run a thin knife between cake and side of pan and invert rack over cake. Flip cake onto rack and cool completely. Peel off paper.
Cut cake horizontally in half with a long serrated knife to form 2 layers, then tightly wrap each layer in plastic wrap and freeze 30 minutes.
Put 1 cake layer on plate or inverted cake pan (at least 10 inches, but small enough to fit in your freezer). Dip pan containing vanilla ice cream mixture in a large bowl of hot water briefly to loosen, 5 to 7 seconds (have a kitchen towel ready to wipe off water), and unmold ice cream onto cake. Top vanilla ice cream layer with second cake layer, cut side up. Unmold sorbet layer onto cake in same manner and freeze ice cream cake until firm, about 1 hour.
Beat egg whites and a pinch of salt in a large bowl with cleaned beaters at moderately high speed until foamy, then add cream of tartar and continue to beat until whites hold soft peaks. Add sugar a little at a time, beating, and continue beating until whites just hold stiff, glossy peaks. Beat in vanilla.
Put oven rack in lower third of oven and preheat oven to 450 degrees F.
Transfer frozen cake (still on plate or inverted cake pan) to a baking sheet lined with parchment or wax paper and spread meringue over cake, making it at least 1 inch thick and mounding it on top. Make an indentation with a tablespoon in center of meringue deep enough to fit eggshell. Bake cake until edges are lightly browned, about 5 minutes. Carefully transfer cake to a serving plate using 2 metal spatulas and place eggshell in indentation. Pour liqueur into eggshell and carefully ignite with a kitchen match. Spoon flaming liqueur evenly over meringue (flaming liqueur will brown meringue a little more). Remove eggshell and serve baked Alaska immediately.

Meringue Petits Fours with Anise Cream and Pomegranate 
2 large egg whites
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup superfine granulated sugar
2 teaspoons regular granulated sugar
1/2 teaspoon anise seeds
1/2 cup chilled heavy cream
1/4 cup pomegranate seeds
a pastry bag fitted with 1/3-inch plain tip; parchment paper; an electric coffee/spice grinder

Preheat oven to 175 degrees F.
Beat egg whites with salt using an electric mixer at high speed until they just hold stiff peaks. Add superfine sugar a little at a time, beating at high speed, and continue to beat until whites hold stiff, glossy peaks.
Spoon meringue into pastry bag and pipe 1 1/4-inch-wide disks (about 1/3 inch high) about 1/2 inch apart on a parchment-lined baking sheet.
Bake meringues in middle of oven until dry but still white, about 1 1/2 hours, then cool in turned-off oven (with door closed) 1 hour. Transfer meringues on baking sheet to a rack to cool completely.
Finely grind regular sugar with anise in coffee/spice grinder. Beat cream in a bowl with cleaned beaters until it just holds soft peaks, then add anise sugar, beating until it just holds stiff peaks.
Peel meringues from parchment, then dollop 1 teaspoon cream onto each meringue and top with 3 pomegranate seeds.

Hazelnut and Almond Macaroons with Orange Semifreddo 
3 large egg whites
3/4 cup superfine granulated sugar
1/2 cup coarsely chopped blanched almonds (2 3/4 oz), toasted
1/2 cup coarsely chopped hazelnuts (2 ounces), toasted
9 oranges
4 large egg yolks
3/4 cup sugar
2 tablespoons potato starch
1 orange
2/3 cup sugar
2/3 cup dry white wine
1/4 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
parchment paper, a large pastry bag fitted with a 1-inch plain tip, and an ice-cream maker

Preheat oven to 200 degrees F. Line a large baking sheet with parchment paper. Draw or trace 12 (3-inch) circles 1 inch apart on parchment and turn paper over on baking sheet.
Put egg whites in a metal bowl set over a pan of simmering water and gently whisk constantly until barely warm. Remove bowl from heat and beat whites with a pinch of salt with an electric mixer until they just hold soft peaks. Gradually add 1/2 cup superfine sugar, beating until whites just hold stiff, glossy peaks. Fold in remaining 1/4 cup sugar, then nuts.
Transfer meringue to pastry bag and pipe 12 rounds of meringue inside drawn circles on parchment. Bake in middle of oven until dry to the touch and crisp, about 1 1/2 hours. If macaroons are not crisp after 1 1/2 hours, turn off oven and let stand in oven 30 to 40 minutes more. Peel macaroons off parchment and transfer to a rack to cool (macaroons may stick if cooled on paper).
Finely grate enough zest from oranges to measure 1 1/2 teaspoons. Squeeze 2 cups juice.
Whisk together yolks, sugar, and potato starch in a 1-quart heavy saucepan. Gradually add juice, whisking until smooth. Cook over moderate heat, whisking constantly, until thickened and registers 170 degrees F on an instant-read thermometer, 5 to 6 minutes. Pour through a very fine sieve into a metal bowl and stir in zest. Set bowl in a larger bowl of ice and cold water and stir occasionally until mixture is cold.
Freeze in ice-cream maker until soft-frozen. Spread semifreddo on flat (bottom) side of 6 macaroons and top with remaining macaroons, flat sides down. Wrap each in plastic wrap and freeze until ready to serve.
Remove zest from orange with a vegetable peeler, then remove any white pith from zest. Julienne zest. Squeeze 1 tablespoon juice.
Cover zest with cold water in a small saucepan and bring to a boil. Drain in a sieve and rinse under cold water. Pat dry.
Cook sugar in a dry 1-quart heavy saucepan over moderate heat, undisturbed, until it begins to melt. Continue to cook, stirring occasionally with a fork, until sugar is melted into a deep golden caramel.
While caramel is cooking, bring wine and zest to a boil in a small saucepan. Tilt caramel pan and carefully pour in wine with zest (caramel will harden and steam vigorously). Cook over moderately low heat, stirring, until caramel is dissolved. Stir in orange and lemon juices, then cool.
Let filled macaroons soften 20 to 25 minutes at room temperature, then serve with wine syrup.

Chocolate-Filled Hazelnut Cookies 
3/4 cup hazelnuts, toasted , any loose skins rubbed off in a kitchen towel, and cooled
1 cup confectioners sugar
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, well softened
1/4 teaspoon finely grated fresh lemon zest
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 cup cake flour (not self-rising)
3 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened; preferably 70% cacao), chopped
parchment paper

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 or 3 baking sheets with parchment paper.
Grind nuts with confectioners sugar in a food processor until powdery (be careful not to process to a paste).
Beat together butter, zest, salt, and nut mixture in a large bowl with a rubber spatula or wooden spoon until creamy, then add flour, stirring until just incorporated (do not overwork).
Roll level 1/2 teaspoons of dough into tiny balls (the size of marbles) and arrange 1 inch apart on baking sheets. Bake, 1 sheet at a time, until very pale golden, 12 to 14 minutes, then slide parchment with cookies onto a rack to cool completely.
Melt chocolate in a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water, stirring occasionally, until smooth. Spoon melted chocolate into a small plastic bag and seal bag, forcing out excess air. Snip off 1 bottom corner of bag with scissors to form a small hole.
Pipe a small mound (about 1/8 teaspoon) of melted chocolate onto flat sides of 10 cookies, then top with 10 more cookies, pressing flat sides together to help adhere. Repeat procedure with remaining cookies.

Chile Lime Tuiles 
1/2 cup sugar
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into pieces
3 tablespoons light corn syrup
1/3 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon ancho chile powder
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh lime zest
1 tablespoon fresh lime juice
4 (12-inch-long) wooden spoons or 12- by 1/2-inch wooden dowels; parchment paper

Bring sugar, butter, and corn syrup to a boil in a 1-quart heavy saucepan over moderate heat, stirring, then boil 1 minute. Remove from heat and stir in remaining ingredients until smooth. Cool dough to room temperature.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place wooden spoons parallel to each other 2 inches apart on a metal rack.
Roll a level teaspoon of dough into a ball, then into a log. Arrange 3 logs about 3 inches apart on a parchment-lined baking sheet, then pinch and stretch each to form an 8- to 9-inch-long strip (about 1/8 inch wide).
Bake in middle of oven until flat and golden, 7 to 9 minutes. While first sheet is baking, form remaining strips on more sheets of parchment. Slide parchment paper with baked cookies from sheet to a rack and cool cookies 30 seconds. Working quickly, slide a long thin metal spatula under each cookie and drape across spoon handles to form a wavy shape. (If cookies harden on paper before being draped, slide them back onto hot baking sheet for a moment to soften.) Bake and drape remaining cookies in same manner.

Five-Spice Fortune Cookies 
Butter for baking sheets
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon five-spice powder*
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
2 large egg whites
about 16 (3- by 1/2-inch) strips of white paper and a pen with nontoxic ink

Write fortunes on strips of paper.
Put oven rack in middle position and preheat to 400 degrees F. Butter a 6-inch-wide strip lengthwise across middle of 2 baking sheets (from one short side to the other).
Sift together flour, five-spice powder, and a pinch of salt into a bowl and stir in sugar.
Whisk egg whites in a bowl just until foamy. Add flour mixture and whisk until smooth.
Put 2 teaspoons batter on 1 side of buttered area of 1 baking sheet and spread evenly into a round about 3 1/2 inches in diameter using back of a spoon or a small offset spatula. Place 2 teaspoons more batter on other half of buttered area and form another round.
Bake rounds until golden around edge and paler gold in center, 5 to 6 minutes. Remove rounds from oven and, working quickly, flip 1 cookie over on baking sheet with a spatula. Transfer same cookie to a work surface, then put a fortune in center of inverted cookie and fold cookie in half (cookie will be hot). Lift up cookie with both hands by corners and press center of folded bottom edge perpendicularly against the edge of a countertop, making a crease. Continue folding in same direction to bring corners together to create a C shape. Hold for a few seconds while cookie cools and shape sets, then set aside to cool. Quickly invert and fold second hot cookie, this time working on baking sheet to keep cookie warm and malleable.
Make 2 more cookies in same manner on second buttered baking sheet, then continue with remaining batter, using a buttered cool baking sheet for each batch.
*Available at Asian markets and specialty foods shops.

Jam-Filled Playing Card Cookies 
3/4 cup confectioners sugar
1 3/4 sticks (3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons) unsalted butter, softened
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh lemon zest
1 large egg yolk
2 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup strawberry jam, heated and strained
1/2 cup apricot jam, heated and strained
*Available from Sweet Celebrations (800-328-6722)
1/2-inch cookie cutters: spades, diamonds, clubs, and hearts*

Sift confectioners sugar into a large bowl, then beat with butter and zest with an electric mixer at medium speed until pale and fluffy. Beat in yolk, then beat in flour and salt.
Quarter dough and roll out each quarter between sheets of parchment or wax paper into an approximately 9- by 7-inch rectangle (3/4 inch thick). Stack rectangles, still between paper, on a baking sheet and freeze at least 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Transfer 1 paper-enclosed rectangle to a work surface (keep remaining rectangles frozen). Remove top sheet of paper and replace it loosely. Flip over paper-enclosed rectangle and discard paper now on top.
Trim dough to a 71/2- by 6-inch rectangle with a sharp knife and a ruler. Cut lengthwise into thirds, then crosswise into thirds to form 9 (2 1/2- by 2-inch) rectangles.
Carefully transfer cookies with a metal spatula to a buttered baking sheet and bake in middle of oven until edges are just pale golden, about 10 minutes. Cool on baking sheet on a rack 5 minutes, then transfer to racks to cool completely.
Cut and bake 9 more cookies in same manner.
Then make  inchcard inch cookies from remaining 2 dough rectangles: Roll out and cut in same manner as above, but before baking, use cookie cutters to cut out shapes from 2 corners of each card.
Do not cut too close to edge or cookie will break. Bake cookies in same manner as solid ones.
Arrange 9 solid cookies, bottom sides up, on a work surface and spread each with 1 1/2 teaspoons warm strawberry jam. Top each with a cutout cookie, pressing gently to help adhere. If necessary, spoon some of remaining jam into cutouts. Sandwich remaining cookies with warm apricot jam.

Sauternes-Soaked Genoise with Candied Kumquats 
1 1/4 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1/8 teaspoon salt
5 large eggs
2/3 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 cup water
1 cup sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 cups fresh kumquats (3/4 lb without leaves), 1 kumquat (left whole) reserved for Sauternes syrup and remainder halved lengthwise (quartered if large) and seeds discarded
1 1/2 cups Sauternes
6 tablespoons sugar
Zest of 1 kumquat, removed with a vegetable peeler
2 tablespoons sliced blanched almonds, toasted
Garnish: confectioners sugar
a 10- by 2-inch round cake pan

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter cake pan. Line bottom of pan with a round of wax paper or parchment, then butter paper. Dust pan with flour, knocking out excess.
Sift together flour and salt. Beat together eggs, sugar, and vanilla with an electric mixer at high speed until tripled in volume and thick enough to form a ribbon that takes 2 seconds to dissolve when beater is lifted, 7 to 8 minutes in a standing mixer or 14 to 16 minutes with a handheld.
Resift flour mixture, one third at a time, over batter, folding in gently but thoroughly with a rubber spatula after each addition. Stir together butter and about 3/4 cup batter in a small bowl until combined, then fold butter mixture into batter gently but thoroughly.
Pour batter into cake pan and bake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out clean, 30 to 40 minutes.
Transfer cake in pan to a rack, then run a thin knife between cake and side of pan and cool cake, about 20 minutes. Invert cake onto a platter with a lip and peel off paper.
Bring water, sugar, and salt to a boil in a 2-quart heavy saucepan, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Reduce heat and simmer, uncovered, 2 minutes. Add kumquats and simmer, uncovered, stirring occasionally, until tender, 10 to 12 minutes. Transfer kumquats to a heatproof bowl using a slotted spoon, then boil syrup until reduced to about 2/3 cup, 3 to 7 minutes. Pour over kumquats.
Bring Sauternes, sugar, and zest to a boil in a 1-quart heavy saucepan, stirring until sugar is dissolved, then boil until reduced to about 1 cup, 5 to 8 minutes. Discard zest.
Prick top of cake all over with wooden pick or skewer, then brush or pour Sauternes syrup, little by little, evenly over cake, letting syrup be absorbed before each new addition.
Mound kumquats on cake using slotted spoon, then sprinkle with almonds. Serve remaining kumquat syrup on the side.

Walnut Spice Cake with Lemon Glaze 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons ground allspice
1 1/2 teaspoons freshly grated nutmeg
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
3 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 1/4 cups sour cream
1 cup walnuts (3 ounces), toasted , cooled, and finely chopped
1 cup confectioners sugar
4 teaspoons fresh lemon juice
a 12-cup bundt pan

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter bundt pan.
Sift together flour, cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, baking soda, baking powder, and salt into a bowl. Beat together butter and sugar in another bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about minutes in a standing mixer or 4 with a handheld. Add yolks 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in vanilla. Reduce speed to low, then add flour mixture and sour cream alternately in batches, mixing well after each addition.
Beat egg whites in another bowl with cleaned beaters until they just hold stiff peaks, then fold whites and walnuts into batter gently but thoroughly.
Spoon batter into pan, smoothing top, and bake until a wooden pick or skewer comes out clean, 40 to 50 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 10 minutes, then invert onto rack and cool completely.
Whisk together confectioners sugar and lemon juice until smooth. Transfer cake to a plate, then drizzle glaze over cake and let stand until glaze is set, about 20 minutes.

Toasted Coconut Dacquoise with Orange Pineapple Ice Cream 
1/2 fresh pineapple (preferably labeled  inchextra sweet inch)
1 1/2 cups heavy cream
1 cup whole milk
2/3 cup sugar
1/8 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs
1 tablespoon finely grated fresh orange zest
1/2 cup fresh orange juice
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 1/4 cups sweetened flaked coconut (4 1/2 ounces)
4 large egg whites at room temperature for 30 minutes
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sugar
Accompaniment: orange rum caramel sauce
an instant-read thermometer; parchment paper; a 9- to 91/2-inch springform pan; a pastry bag fitted with a 1/2-inch plain tip; an ice cream maker

Cut rind from pineapple half, then squeeze juice from rind with your hands into a bowl. Pour juice through a fine-mesh sieve into a small bowl. Core pineapple, then finely chop pineapple flesh and chill, covered, until ready to use.
Bring cream, milk, sugar, and salt to a boil in a 2-quart heavy saucepan, stirring until sugar is dissolved. Whisk eggs in a bowl until blended, then add hot cream mixture in a slow stream, whisking. Transfer custard back to saucepan and cook over moderately low heat, stirring constantly with a wooden spoon, until thick enough to coat back of spoon and registers 175 to 180 degrees F on thermometer, 3 to 5 minutes (do not let boil).
Immediately pour through sieve into cleaned bowl and stir in zest, orange and lemon juices, and reserved pineapple juice. Cool custard to room temperature, stirring occasionally, then chill, its surface covered with a round of wax paper, until cold, about 3 hours.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Spread coconut evenly in a shallow baking pan and toast in middle of oven, stirring occasionally, until golden, 10 to 12 minutes. Cool in pan on a rack.
Reduce oven to 200 degrees F.
Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment and, using removable bottom of springform pan as a template, trace 3 circles on parchment (2 on 1 sheet and 1 on other). Turn parchment over (circles will be visible through paper).
Beat egg whites with cream of tartar and salt in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until they hold soft peaks. Beat in sugar 1 tablespoon at a time and continue to beat until meringue holds stiff glossy peaks, about 5 minutes. Fold coconut into meringue, then spoon half into pastry bag. Holding bag perpendicular to and 1 inch above parchment, pipe meringue evenly into parchment circles in a spiral, beginning in center of each and ending just inside traced line. (Refill bag with meringue as needed.)
Bake meringues in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until dry to the touch, very pale, and crisp, about 2 hours total. (On rainy days, it may be necessary to bake meringues longer.) Slide meringues (on parchment) onto racks and cool completely. Peel paper from meringues.
Freeze custard in ice cream maker. Transfer to a bowl and stir in chilled chopped pineapple. If not using immediately, transfer ice cream to an airtight container and put in freezer.
Line bottom of springform pan with a round of wax paper. Trim edges of meringues with a knife, if necessary, to fit into pan. Place 1 meringue, flat side down, in bottom of pan. Spread meringue evenly with half of ice cream, then top with another meringue, pressing it gently into ice cream. Spread meringue evenly with remaining ice cream, then cover with remaining meringue, flat side down, pressing it gently into ice cream. Wrap pan with plastic wrap and freeze until dacquoise is firm, at least 2 hours.
About 20 minutes before serving, remove dacquoise from pan (discard wax paper) and transfer to a serving plate, then put in refrigerator to soften.

Lemon-Ginger Cheesecake 
2 cups finely ground gingersnap cookies (about 9 ounces)
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
4 large eggs, room temperature
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup whipping cream
1/2 cup finely chopped crystallized ginger
2 tablespoons finely grated peeled fresh ginger
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
4 teaspoons grated lemon peel
Lemon slices (for garnish)

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Generously butter 10-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Double-wrap outside of pan with heavy-duty foil. Blend ground cookies, sugar, and ginger in processor. Add melted butter and process until moist crumbs form. Press mixture onto bottom and 1/2 inch up sides of prepared pan. Bake until crust sets, about 10 minutes. Cool. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in sugar, scraping down sides of bowl occasionally. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in sour cream and whipping cream, then crystallized ginger, fresh ginger, lemon juice, and lemon peel.
Pour filling into crust. Place springform pan in large roasting pan. Pour enough boiling water into roasting pan to come 1 inch up sides of springform pan. Bake cheesecake until filling is set and golden brown on top (cake will rise slightly above edge of pan), about 1 hour 25 minutes. Turn off oven and prop open oven door with wooden spoon. Let cake stand in oven 1 hour (cake will fall).
Remove springform pan from water bath. Remove foil and cool cheesecake completely on rack. Cover and refrigerate overnight. (Can be prepared ahead and refrigerated 4 days or frozen up to 2 months. Defrost frozen cake overnight in refrigerator.) Release pan sides from cheesecake. Transfer cheesecake to platter. Arrange lemon slices decoratively around cake and serve.

Streusel Sour Cream Coffeecakes 
3/4 cup granulated sugar
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup packed light brown sugar
2 sticks (1 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch cubes
1 teaspoon cinnamon
1 1/2 cups (6 oz) pecans, toasted and chopped
1 cup sour cream
1 whole large egg
1 large egg yolk
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons finely grated fresh orange zest
2 muffin tins, each with 12 (1/2-cup) muffin cups

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Stir together granulated sugar, flour, salt, and 3/4 cup brown sugar in a large bowl, then blend in 1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) butter with your fingertips or a pastry blender until mixture resembles coarse meal with some pea-size butter lumps. Transfer 3/4 cup to a bowl and blend in cinnamon, remaining 1/2 stick (1/4 cup) butter, and remaining 1/4 cup brown sugar with your fingertips or pastry blender until crumbly. Stir in pecans, then chill streusel topping 15 minutes.
Whisk together sour cream, whole egg, yolk, vanilla, baking soda, and zest, then stir into remaining flour mixture until just combined (batter will be stiff).
Divide batter among 18 well-buttered muffin cups (they'll be about two-thirds full; butter tops of tins as well). Sprinkle each with streusel topping, pressing it lightly into batter. Bake coffeecakes in middle of oven until golden brown and a toothpick inserted in center comes out clean, 20 to 25 minutes. Cool in pans on racks 30 minutes. Loosen cakes with a sharp small knife, then carefully remove cakes from pans.

Almond Apricot Biscotti 
2 cups all-purpose flour
3/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) cold unsalted butter, cut into small pieces
1 whole large egg, lightly beaten
1/3 cup whole milk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
1 cup whole almonds with skins (5 1/2 oz), toasted and cooled
1 cup dried apricots (6 oz), quartered
1 large egg yolk beaten with 1 tablespoon water for egg wash
parchment paper

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, sugar, baking powder, and salt in a bowl. Blend in butter with a pastry blender or your fingertips until mixture resembles coarse meal. Add whole egg, milk, and extracts, stirring with a fork until a soft dough forms, then knead in almonds.
Divide dough between 2 sheets of wax paper, then form into 2 equal mounds and flatten each mound into a 5-inch disk. Put half of apricots in center of 1 disk and fold dough over apricots to enclose them (use wax paper as an aid if necessary), then transfer to a parchment-lined baking sheet. Form into a 14- by 2 1/2-inch log lengthwise on 1 side of baking sheet, spreading dough with wet hands. Make another log with remaining dough and apricots, arranging it about 4 inches from first log.
Brush logs with egg wash and bake in middle of oven until pale golden and firm, about 20 minutes. Cool on baking sheet on a rack 20 minutes.
Reduce oven temperature to 300 degrees F while logs cool.
Carefully transfer baked logs to a cutting board using 2 wide metal spatulas, then cut logs diagonally into 1/2-inch-wide slices with a large heavy knife.
Line baking sheet with a clean sheet of parchment. Stand slices, curved sides up, 1/2 inch apart on baking sheet and bake in upper third of oven until biscotti are dry, about 30 minutes (they will become hard as they cool). Transfer biscotti to rack to cool.

Chocolate Chestnut Torte with Chocolate Cognac Mousse 
2 cups heavy cream
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
16 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), finely chopped
6 marrons glacés (candied chestnuts), finely chopped
9 oz bottled whole shelled roasted chestnuts (1 1/2 cups)
2 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups packed light brown sugar
4 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
3/4 cup sour cream
3/4 stick (6 tablespoons) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
8 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), finely chopped
5 tablespoons Cognac
3/4 cup chilled heavy cream
2 large egg whites
1/4 cup granulated sugar
Garnish: caramelized chestnuts
3 (8-inch) round cake pans; an 8-inch round of cardboard, covered with foil if not wax-coated

Bring cream and butter to a simmer in a 3- to 4-quart heavy saucepan, then reduce heat to low. Whisk in chocolate until smooth and remove from heat. Transfer ganache to a bowl and chill, covered, stirring every 30 minutes, until thickened but spreadable, about 2 hours. (If ganache becomes too stiff, let stand at room temperature until slightly softened.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter cake pans and line bottom of each with a round of parchment or wax paper. Butter paper and dust pans with flour, knocking out excess flour.
Pulse chestnuts with flour, baking soda, and salt in a food processor until finely ground.
Beat butter and brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes in a standing mixer or about 6 minutes with a handheld. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in vanilla (mixture will look a little separated). Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture and sour cream alternately in 3 batches, beginning and ending with flour and mixing until just combined.
Divide batter evenly among pans and bake in middle of oven until pale golden and springy to the touch, about 30 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on racks, then invert onto racks and remove parchment.
Melt butter and chocolate in a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a saucepan of barely simmering water, stirring until smooth, and stir in Cognac. Transfer to a bowl and chill, covered, stirring occasionally, until thickened to the consistency of softened butter, about 1 hour. (If mixture becomes too stiff, let stand at room temperature until softened.)
Beat cream in a bowl with cleaned beaters until it just holds soft peaks, then chill, covered, while beginning to assemble torte.
Put 1 cake layer on cardboard round on a rack set in a shallow baking pan (1 inch deep). Spread 1/2 cup ganache evenly over top of layer and sprinkle with all of chopped marrons glacés. Top marrons glacés with another 1/4 cup ganache and cover with another cake layer.
Beat egg whites with a pinch of salt using cleaned beaters at medium-high speed until they just hold soft peaks. Add sugar and beat at high speed until whites just hold stiff peaks. Stir whipped cream into chocolate Cognac mixture, then stir in one third of whites to lighten. Fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Spoon mousse immediately onto cake layer (it sets quickly), spreading evenly, then top with third cake layer. Chill torte, covered, until mousse layer is firm, about 1 hour. Keep remaining ganache at a spreadable consistency at room temperature, chilling, covered, if it becomes too soft.
Reserve 1 1/4 cups ganache in a metal bowl, then spread remainder over top and side of torte to seal in crumbs. Chill until firm, about 1 hour.
Set bowl of reserved ganache over a saucepan of barely simmering water, stirring until ganache reaches a pourable consistency. Remove bowl from heat and cool 5 minutes. Pour ganache evenly over top of torte, making sure it coats all of side. Shake rack gently to smooth glaze (let excess drip into baking pan). Transfer cake on cardboard to a cake stand or plate using 2 large heavy metal spatulas and chill until set. Garnish just before serving.

Blueberry Cheesecake 
2 1/3 cups graham cracker crumbs
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1/4 cup sugar
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/4 cup all purpose flour
5 large eggs
1 16-ounce container sour cream
1/4 cup milk
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup all-fruit blueberry spread
2 6-ounce baskets fresh blueberries or 12-ounce package frozen blueberries, thawed, drained

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Wrap outside of 10-inch-diameter springform pan with heavy-duty foil. Combine all ingredients in processor. Blend using on/off turns just until crumbs are moist. Press crumb mixture firmly onto bottom and 2 inches up sides of prepared pan. Bake until crust begins to brown, about 8 minutes. Transfer crust to rack and cool. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until will blended. Beat in flour. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until combined. Beat in sour cream, milk and vanilla. Pour filling into crust.
Place springform pan in large roasting pan. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to come 1 inch up sides of pan. Bake cheesecake until just set in center and top is slightly puffed and golden brown, about 1 hour. Turn off oven; keep door closed. Let cheesecake stand in oven 1 hour. Remove cheesecake from roasting pan. Refrigerate until cold, at least 6 hours. Cover; refrigerate overnight.
Stir blueberry spread in large skillet over low heat until melted. Remove from heat. Add blueberries; toss to coat. Spoon blueberry mixture over top of cake, spreading evenly. Chill until cold, at least 1 hour and up to 4 hours.
Run small sharp knife around sides of cake to loosen. Release pan sides. Transfer cake to platter. Cut into wedges.

Molten Chocolate Cakes with Mint Fudge Sauce 
4 1/2 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 ounces unsweetened chocolate, chopped
1/3 cup hot water
1/4 cup light corn syrup
3/4 teaspoon peppermint extract
5 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
10 tablespoons unsalted butter
3 large eggs
3 large egg yolks
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1/2 cup all purpose flour
Vanilla ice cream

Stir both chocolates in top of double boiler over barely simmering water until melted. Add 1/3 cup hot water, corn syrup and extract; whisk until smooth. Remove from over water. Cool slightly. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover; chill. Before serving, rewarm in saucepan over low heat, stirring constantly.)
Preheat oven to 450 degrees F. Butter six 3/4-cup soufflé dishes or custard cups. Stir chocolate and butter in heavy medium saucepan over low heat until melted. Cool slightly. Whisk eggs and egg yolks in large bowl to blend. Whisk in sugar, then chocolate mixture and flour. Pour batter into dishes, dividing equally. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover; chill.)
Bake cakes until sides are set but center remains soft and runny, about 11 minutes or up to 14 minutes for batter that was refrigerated. Run small knife around cakes to loosen. Immediately turn cakes out onto plates. Spoon sauce around cakes. Serve with ice cream.

German Cinnamon Stars (Zimtsterne) 
1 1/2 cups (about 8 ounces) hazelnuts or blanched almonds, finely ground
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon grated lemon zest
1/4 cup egg whites (about 2 large)
Pinch of salt
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar
About 1/2 cup additional confectioners' sugar for rolling

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Line a large baking sheet with parchment paper or aluminum foil.
2. Combine the nuts, cinnamon, and zest. Beat the egg whites on low speed until foamy, about 30 seconds. Add the salt, increase the speed to medium-high, and beat until soft peaks form, 1 to 2 minutes. Gradually add the confectioners' sugar and beat until stiff and glossy, 5 to 8 minutes. Reserve one-third of the meringue (about 1/3 cup) and fold the nut mixture into the remaining meringue.
3. Place a large piece of waxed paper on a flat surface and sprinkle with additional confectioners' sugar. Place the nut mixture on the sugar, lightly sprinkle with more confectioners' sugar, top with a second piece of waxed paper, and roll out 1/4 inch thick. Remove the top piece of waxed paper. Using a cookie cutter dipped in water, cut into 2-inch star shapes or use a sharp knife to cut into diamonds. Reroll and cut any scraps. Place on the prepared baking sheet.
4. Bake until set, 10 to 12 minutes. Spread the reserved meringue over the top of the cookies and bake until the tops are lightly colored, about 5 minutes. Transfer to a rack and let cool. Zimtsternen taste best if allowed to stand for 24 hours. Store in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 3 weeks.

Basic Butter Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Garnish: coarse or sanding sugar*; or melted chocolate (see cooks' note, below)

Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt in a small bowl.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes in a standing mixer (preferably fitted with paddle attachment) or 6 with a handheld. Beat in egg and vanilla. Reduce speed to low, then add flour mixture and mix until just combined.
Form dough into a 12-inch log (2 inches in diameter) on a sheet of plastic wrap and roll up dough in plastic wrap. Chill dough on a baking sheet until firm, at least 4 hours. (To roll cookies into balls, see cooks' note, below.)
Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Cut enough 1/8- to 1/4-inch-thick slices from log with a heavy knife to fill 2 ungreased large baking sheets, arranging slices about 1 inch apart (chill remainder of log, wrapped in plastic wrap). If garnishing with coarse sugar, sprinkle slices with it.
Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until edges are golden, 12 to 15 minutes total. Cool on sheets 3 minutes, then transfer with a metal spatula to racks to cool completely. Make more cookies with remaining dough on cooled baking sheets.
*Available at specialty foods shops and New York Cake & Baking Distributor (800-942-2639).

Walnut Tweed Torte 
1 1/2 cups walnuts (5 1/2 ounces), toasted and cooled
1/2 cup matzo cake meal
8 large eggs, separated, at room temperature for 30 minutes
1 1/3 cups sugar
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 teaspoons finely grated fresh orange zest
1/4 cup fresh orange juice
1 teaspoon vanilla
4 ounces bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), coarsely grated using 1/4-inch teardrop-shaped holes of a box grater
Accompaniment: lightly sweetened whipped cream (optional)
a 10- by 2-inch springform pan

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Insert bottom of springform pan upside down (so that turned-up edge faces down for easier removal of cake).
Pulse walnuts with 3 tablespoons matzo cake meal in a food processor until nuts are finely chopped (be careful not to pulse to a paste). Add remaining 5 tablespoons matzo cake meal and pulse until mixture resembles a grainy flour.
Beat egg whites with a pinch of salt in a bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until they form soft peaks. Add 2/3 cup sugar a little at a time, beating until whites just hold stiff peaks.
Beat together yolks and remaining 2/3 cup sugar with 1/2 teaspoon salt in a large bowl at medium-high speed until thick and pale, about 3 minutes in a standing mixer or about 5 minutes with a handheld. Fold in nut flour, then zest, juice, and vanilla. Fold grated chocolate into batter gently but thoroughly. Fold in one third of whites to lighten batter, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly.
Pour batter into ungreased springform pan, smoothing top, and bake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center comes out clean, 50 minutes to 1 hour. Cool in pan on a rack 15 minutes, then run a thin sharp knife between cake and side of pan. Remove side of pan and cool cake completely. Invert cake onto rack and run knife between cake and bottom of pan to remove bottom, then flip onto a plate.

Upside-Down Pear Gingerbread Cake 
2 1/2 firm pears (preferably Bosc)
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup molasses (preferably mild)
1 cup boiling water
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 large egg, lightly beaten
Accompaniment: vanilla ice cream
a well-seasoned 10-inch cast-iron skillet or a 12-inch deep nonstick skillet (handle wrapped with a double layer of foil if not ovenproof)

Peel and core pears and cut each into 8 wedges.
Melt butter in skillet over moderate heat until foam subsides. Reduce heat to low, then sprinkle brown sugar over bottom of skillet and cook, undisturbed, 3 minutes (not all sugar will be melted). Arrange pears decoratively over sugar and cook, undisturbed, 2 minutes. Remove from heat.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, cinnamon, ginger, cloves, and salt in a bowl. Whisk together molasses and boiling water in a small bowl. Beat together butter, brown sugar, and egg in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until creamy, about 2 minutes, then alternately mix in flour mixture and molasses in 3 batches at low speed until smooth.
Pour batter over topping in skillet, spreading evenly and being careful not to disturb pears, and bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, 40 to 50 minutes.
Cool cake in skillet on a rack 5 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge of skillet, then invert a large plate with a lip over skillet and, using pot holders to hold skillet and plate tightly together, invert cake onto plate. Replace any pears that stick to skillet. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Parisian Passover Coconut Macaroons 
Matzo cake meal for dusting
1 1/4 cups sugar
3/4 cup water
3 large egg whites at room temperature
3 cups finely grated unsweetened (desiccated) coconut (8 oz)
a standing electric mixer, a candy thermometer

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Grease 2 baking sheets and dust with cake meal, knocking off any excess.
Cook sugar and water in a small heavy saucepan over low heat, stirring, until sugar is dissolved. Boil syrup, without stirring, until it reaches soft-ball stage (or registers 238 degrees F on a candy thermometer).
While syrup boils, beat whites in standing mixer on low speed until stiff peaks form. Gradually pour hot syrup in a thin stream down side of bowl into whites, beating constantly on high speed. (Be careful not to let syrup touch beaters when pouring, or it will spatter and harden.) Continue to beat until meringue is room temperature.
Stir in coconut and spoon rounded teaspoons of meringue into mounds about 1 inch apart on baking sheets. Shape mounds into pyramids with wet fingertips.
Bake macaroons 1 sheet at a time in middle of oven 12 minutes, or until just firm enough to be removed from baking sheet without losing their shape. Carefully transfer to a rack to cool. (Macaroons will harden as they cool.)

Polish Butter Cookies (ciasteczka) 
2 cups sifted all-purpose flour (sift before measuring)
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup sugar
5 hard-boiled large egg yolks, forced through a fine sieve
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1 large egg
1 teaspoon milk
a pastry cloth and a rolling pin sleeve

Sift together flour and salt.
Beat together butter and sugar with an electric mixer until pale and fluffy. Beat in yolks and vanilla until combined well. Mix in flour mixture at low speed just until blended. Form dough into a disk and chill, wrapped in plastic wrap, until firm, about 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Keeping remaining dough chilled, roll out one fourth of dough slightly less than 1/4 inch thick on floured pastry cloth with sleeve-covered rolling pin (dough is soft). Cut out desired shapes with a 21/2- to 3-inch floured cookie cutter. Chill scraps. Arrange cookies 1 inch apart on a greased baking sheet.
Stir together sugar and cinnamon in a small bowl. Lightly beat together egg and milk in another bowl. Lightly brush tops of cookies with egg mixture and sprinkle with cinnamon sugar.
Bake cookies in middle of oven until pale golden, about 12 minutes, then transfer to a rack to cool. Make more cookies in same manner, rerolling scraps no more than twice.

Poppy Seed Shortbreads 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/3 cup poppy seeds
a 1-gal sealable plastic bag (not stand-up or pleated); a 2 1/2- by 1 1/2-inch fluted oval cookie cutter

Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Beat together butter, sugar, vanilla, and salt in a bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until light and fluffy, about 3 minutes. Reduce speed to low, then add flour and poppy seeds and mix until just combined.
Transfer dough to plastic bag and pat out dough to size of bag. Press out excess air and seal bag. Roll out dough with a rolling pin to flatten evenly and to fill bag (dough will be about 1/4 inch thick). Freeze dough on a baking sheet until firm, at least 20 minutes.
Open bag and cut apart along seams, reserving bag for rolling scraps. Cut out as many ovals as possible with cookie cutter, reserving scraps, and transfer to 2 ungreased large baking sheets, arranging about 1/2 inch apart. Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until edges are golden, 16 to 20 minutes total. Cool cookies on sheets on racks 5 minutes, then transfer with a spatula to racks to cool completely.
Gather and reroll scraps using reserved plastic bag (to keep dough from sticking), then cut out and bake more cookies in same manner.

Caramelized Peach Upside-Down Cake 
1 tablespoon plus 2 teaspoons unsalted butter
6 tablespoons plus 1 teaspoon cake flour (not self-rising)
1 1/4 lb medium peaches (about 4)
9 tablespoons packed light brown sugar
2 large eggs
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/8 teaspoon almond extract
a muffin tin with 6 large (1-cup) muffin cups; parchment paper

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 400 degrees F.
Melt 2 teaspoons butter, then brush muffin cups with some of it. Chill muffin tin 2 minutes to set butter. Line bottom of each muffin cup with a round of parchment paper, then brush cups and parchment with remaining melted butter and chill 2 minutes more. Divide 1 teaspoon flour among muffin cups and shake to coat, knocking out excess flour.
Cut an X in bottom of each peach and immerse peaches in a large pot of boiling water until skins loosen, about 15 seconds. Transfer peaches with a slotted spoon to a large bowl of ice and cold water to cool. Peel peaches, then pit and halve lengthwise. Cut peach halves lengthwise into 1/2-inch-thick slices, then cut slices crosswise into 1/2-inch pieces.
Melt remaining tablespoon butter in a 10-inch heavy skillet over moderate heat, then stir in 3 tablespoons brown sugar and cook, stirring occasionally, until sugar is melted and bubbling, about 2 minutes. Carefully add a scant 2 cups peaches (caramel will splatter and sugar will seize), reserving remaining 1/3 cup peaches, then reduce heat and simmer, stirring occasionally, until peaches are tender and caramel is syrupy, 6 to 8 minutes. Spoon cooked peaches and caramel evenly into muffin cups.
Purée reserved peaches in a blender until smooth. Beat together eggs, salt, almond extract, and remaining 6 tablespoons brown sugar in a bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until mixture is creamy and tripled in volume, 3 to 5 minutes in a stand mixer or 6 to 8 minutes with a handheld. Reduce speed to low, then add puréed peaches and mix until just combined. Sift remaining 6 tablespoons flour evenly over egg mixture and fold in gently but thoroughly until just combined.
Spoon batter over caramelized peaches and bake until golden brown and a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center of a cake comes out clean, 10 to 12 minutes. Cool in muffin tin on a rack 2 to 3 minutes, then invert a platter over muffin tin and flip cakes onto platter while still warm. Reposition any peaches that have stuck to parchment and serve cakes warm or at room temperature.

White Chocolate and Strawberry Cheesecake 
1 9-ounce package chocolate wafer cookies, broken into pieces
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1 pound good-quality white chocolate (such as Lindt or Baker’s), finely chopped
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
4 large eggs
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup whipping cream
2 tablespoons vanilla extract
3 1-pint baskets strawberries, hulled, halved
1/2 cup apricot preserves
2 tablespoons brandy

Position rack in center of oven; preheat to 325 degrees F. Butter 10-inch-diameter springform pan. Wrap outside of pan with foil. Finely grind cookies in processor. Add melted butter; process until crumbs are moist. Press crumbs onto bottom and 2 inches up sides of pan. Bake until set, about 15 minutes. Cool on rack. Maintain oven temperature.
Stir white chocolate in top of double boiler set over barely simmering water until melted and smooth. Remove from over water. Cool to lukewarm, stirring occasionally.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until fluffy, about 3 minutes. Gradually add sugar, then salt; beat until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add sour cream, whipping cream and vanilla; beat until well blended.
Bake cake until top begins to brown but center still moves slightly when pan is gently shaken, about 1 hour 20 minutes. Open oven door slightly; turn off oven. Leave cake in oven 30 minutes. Chill cake uncovered overnight. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cover; keep refrigerated.)
Run small knife between pan sides and cake. Release pan sides. Starting at outer edge of top of cake, arrange strawberry halves in slightly overlapping concentric circles, covering top completely. Stir preserves and brandy in heavy small saucepan over medium heat until mixture boils. Strain preserves. Brush glaze generously over strawberries, allowing some glaze to drip between berries. (Can be made 4 hours ahead. Chill.)

Spice Cake with Blackberry Filling and Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 cups cake flour
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon ground allspice
1/4 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
3 large eggs, separated
1 cup sour cream
3 1/2-pint baskets blackberries
1/4 cup sugar
1 1/2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
5 cups powdered sugar (about 1 1/4 pounds)
2 tablespoons sour cream
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2-pint basket blackberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Sift first 7 ingredients into small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add brown sugar and beat until well blended. Beat in egg yolks. Beat in flour mixture in 3 additions alternately with sour cream in 2 additions. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites in medium bowl until stiff but not dry; fold into batter in 2 additions. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake cake until top is golden and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool cake 10 minutes. Cut around pan sides; release pan sides. Cool cake completely on rack.
Mix berries and sugar in bowl. Mash fruit coarsely with fork. Let stand 20 minutes and up to 1 hour.
Beat cream cheese and butter in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in sugar, then sour cream and vanilla.
Cut cake horizontally into 3 equal layers. Place bottom layer, cut side up, on platter. Spread 1 cup frosting over. Spread half of filling (about 3/4 cup) over frosting, leaving 1/4-inch plain border at edge. Top with second cake layer and 1 cup frosting, then remaining filling. Top with third cake layer, cut side down. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Refrigerate until frosting sets, about 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover loosely; keep chilled until 1 hour before serving.) Garnish cake with 1/2 pint berries.

Individual Chocolate and Peanut Butter Bundt Cakes 
3/4 cup cream cheese (6 oz), softened
1 1/4 cups chunky peanut butter (12 oz)
6 large egg yolks
2/3 cup granulated sugar
1/4 cup all-purpose flour
1 1/4 cups unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
1 1/4 cups boiling water
3 1/2 oz fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), finely chopped
1 (8-oz) container sour cream
1 tablespoon vanilla
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 3/4 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 1/2 sticks (1 1/4 cups) unsalted butter, softened
2 cups packed light brown sugar
3 large eggs
Accompaniment: vanilla ice cream or whipped cream
2 large pastry bags with 3/4-inch openings (or large heavy-duty sealable plastic bags with 1 corner snipped off) and 3 mini angel-food-cake pans (each with molds for six 6- by 3 1/2- by 1 3/4-inch cakes) or large-muffin pans (1 cup)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Beat together cream cheese and peanut butter in a bowl with an electric mixer until smooth. Add yolks, sugar, and flour and beat until just combined. Transfer to a pastry bag and chill.
Put cocoa powder in a bowl and add boiling water in a stream, whisking until smooth. Stir in chopped chocolate and let stand 1 minute, then whisk until smooth. Cool to room temperature, then whisk in sour cream and vanilla.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt. Beat together butter and brown sugar in a large bowl with cleaned beaters until pale and fluffy, then add eggs 1 at a time, beating after each addition until just combined. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture and cocoa mixture alternately in 3 batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating until batter is just combined.
Spoon some of chocolate mixture into second pastry bag and pipe into well-buttered cake molds to fill each about one fourth of the way. Refill pastry bag as needed.
Form 3 evenly spaced, equal pockets of peanut butter mixture in each cake by placing tip of pastry bag with peanut butter mixture onto bottom of mold and squeezing about a heaping teaspoon each time.
Fill molds three-fourths full with remaining chocolate mixture, smoothing tops but being careful not to disturb peanut butter mixture.
Bake cakes in upper and lower thirds of oven, switching position of pans halfway through baking, until a tester comes out with crumbs adhering, 15 to 18 minutes (cakes will be dark).
Run a thin knife around inside edges of molds and gently invert cakes onto racks, then cool completely.

Cinnamon Coffee Cake Kotniuk 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons double-acting baking powder
1 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/3 cups granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon

In a bowl whisk together the flour, the baking powder, and a pinch of salt and in another bowl stir together the sour cream and the baking soda. In a large bowl cream together the butter and 1 cup of the granulated sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, add the eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in the vanilla. Stir in the flour mixture alternately with the sour cream mixture and stir the batter until it is combined well. Pour the batter into a buttered 10-inch round cake pan. In a small bowl stir together the remaining 1/3 cup granulated sugar, the brown sugar, and the cinnamon and swirl the sugar mixture into the batter. Bake the cake in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 45 to 50 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean, transfer it to a rack, and let it cool.

Lemon-Ginger Cheesecake 
2 cups finely ground gingersnap cookies (about 9 ounces)
2 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
4 large eggs, room temperature
1 cup sour cream
1/2 cup whipping cream
1/2 cup finely chopped crystallized ginger
2 tablespoons finely grated peeled fresh ginger
2 tablespoons fresh lemon juice
4 teaspoons grated lemon peel
Lemon slices (for garnish)

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Generously butter 10-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides. Double-wrap outside of pan with heavy-duty foil. Blend ground cookies, sugar, and ginger in processor. Add melted butter and process until moist crumbs form. Press mixture onto bottom and 1/2 inch up sides of prepared pan. Bake until crust sets, about 10 minutes. Cool. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in sugar, scraping down sides of bowl occasionally. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in sour cream and whipping cream, then crystallized ginger, fresh ginger, lemon juice, and lemon peel.
Pour filling into crust. Place springform pan in large roasting pan. Pour enough boiling water into roasting pan to come 1 inch up sides of springform pan. Bake cheesecake until filling is set and golden brown on top (cake will rise slightly above edge of pan), about 1 hour 25 minutes. Turn off oven and prop open oven door with wooden spoon. Let cake stand in oven 1 hour (cake will fall).
Remove springform pan from water bath. Remove foil and cool cheesecake completely on rack. Cover and refrigerate overnight. (Can be prepared ahead and refrigerated 4 days or frozen up to 2 months. Defrost frozen cake overnight in refrigerator.) Release pan sides from cheesecake. Transfer cheesecake to platter. Arrange lemon slices decoratively around cake and serve.

Mexican Chocolate Cake 
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter
1/2 cup Dutch-process unsweetened cocoa powder
3/4 cup water
2 cups granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1/2 cup well-shaken buttermilk
2 tablespoons vanilla
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups chopped pecans (71/2 ounces)
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
1/2 cup half-and-half
1/2 cup confectioners sugar
5 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened), finely chopped
1/4 teaspoon salt
a 9-inch tube pan or 12-cup bundt pan

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter cake pan well and dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Melt butter (2 sticks) in a 3-quart heavy saucepan over moderately low heat, then whisk in cocoa. Add water and whisk until smooth, then remove from heat. Whisk in separately sugar, eggs, buttermilk, and vanilla.
Sift together flour, baking soda, cinnamon, and salt into a bowl, then sift again into cocoa mixture and whisk until just combined (don't worry if there are lumps).
Pour batter into cake pan and bake until a wooden pick or skewer comes out with a few crumbs adhering, 45 to 55 minutes. (Leave oven on.)
Cool cake in pan on a rack 20 minutes, then loosen edges with a thin knife and invert onto a plate.
Spread pecans in 1 layer in a shallow baking pan (1 inch deep) and bake until fragrant and a shade darker, 6 to 8 minutes. Cool pecans slightly in pan on a rack, about 5 minutes.
Melt butter in a 2-quart heavy saucepan over low heat, then stir in half-and-half and confectioners sugar. Add chocolate and cook, stirring, until smooth. Remove from heat and stir in pecans and salt. Cool glaze until slightly thickened, about 5 minutes.
Spoon glaze over top and sides of cake (cake will still be warm) and spread with a small offset spatula or knife to cover completely.

Banana Boston Cream Pie 
1 1/4 cups cake flour (not self-rising)
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup sugar
2 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla
3/4 cup well-shaken low-fat buttermilk
2 large egg yolks
3 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons cornstarch
1/8 teaspoon salt
1 cup fat-free (skim) milk
1 teaspoon unsalted butter
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1 firm-ripe banana
1/2 cup evaporated skim milk
1/4 cup sugar
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
1 oz semisweet chocolate, coarsely chopped
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
2 1/2 tablespoons boiling-hot water
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
a standing electric mixer

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 (8-inch) round cake pans and dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Sift together flour, baking soda, baking powder, and salt.
Beat together butter and sugar in mixer at high speed until lightened, about 5 minutes. Add yolks 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, then beat in vanilla. Add half of flour mixture and mix at low speed until just blended. Add buttermilk, mixing until just combined, then add remaining flour mixture, mixing at low speed until smooth. Transfer batter to a large shallow bowl. Clean mixing bowl and beaters.
Beat whites with a pinch of salt in mixer until they just hold stiff peaks, then fold into batter gently but thoroughly.
Divide batter between pans, smoothing tops. Bake in middle of oven until cake is springy to the touch and a tester comes out clean, 15 to 20 minutes. (Layers will be about 3/4 to 1 inch high.) Cool in pans on racks 5 minutes. Run a sharp thin knife around edges, then invert onto racks and cool completely.
Whisk together yolks, sugar, cornstarch, salt, and 2 tablespoons milk in a bowl. Bring remaining milk to a boil in a 2-quart heavy saucepan and add to yolk mixture in a slow stream, whisking constantly. Pour custard into saucepan and bring to a boil over moderately low heat, whisking constantly, then boil, whisking constantly, 2 minutes. Remove from heat and whisk in butter and vanilla. Transfer custard to a bowl and chill, its surface covered with wax paper, until cold, about 2 hours.
Stir together evaporated milk, sugar, and corn syrup in a small heavy saucepan and simmer, stirring constantly, until caramel-colored and slightly thickened, about 6 minutes (be careful not to burn). Remove from heat and add chopped chocolate, whisking until smooth. Stir together cocoa, hot water, and vanilla in a small bowl, then stir into glaze. Chill, covered, until cool, about 15 minutes.
Place 1 cake layer, upside down, on a platter. Whisk custard until smooth and spread 2/3 cup on top. Cut banana into 1/4-inch-thick slices and arrange evenly over custard, then spread remaining custard over banana. Top with remaining cake layer, upside down. Pour chocolate glaze over top (some may drip onto plate).

Mexican Wedding Cakes 
1 cup (2 sticks) butter, room temperature
2 cups powdered sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
2 cups all purpose flour
1 cup pecans, toasted, coarsely ground
1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon

Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add 1/2 cup powdered sugar and vanilla; beat until well blended. Beat in flour, then pecans. Divide dough in half; form each half into ball. Wrap separately in plastic; chill until cold, about 30 minutes.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Whisk remaining 1 1/2 cups powdered sugar and cinnamon in pie dish to blend. Set cinnamon sugar aside.
Working with half of chilled dough, roll dough by 2 teaspoonfuls between palms into balls. Arrange balls on heavy large baking sheet, spacing 1/2 inch apart. Bake cookies until golden brown on bottom and just pale golden on top, about 18 minutes. Cool cookies 5 minutes on baking sheet. Gently toss warm cookies in cinnamon sugar to coat completely. Transfer coated cookies to rack and cool completely. Repeat procedure with remaining half of dough. (Cookies can be prepared 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature; reserve remaining cinnamon sugar.)
Sift remaining cinnamon sugar over cookies and serve.

Mandarin Chocolate Cake 
12 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into 8 pieces, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1 1/2 tablespoons grated orange peel
4 large eggs
1 large egg yolk
3/4 cup cake flour
1/4 teaspoon (generous) ground ginger
1 cup chopped toasted almonds
3/4 cup minced crystallized ginger
1/2 cup whipping cream
2 tablespoon plus 2 teaspoons Grand Marnier
11 ounces semisweet chocolate, minced
4 oranges, thinly sliced

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 10-inch-diameter cake pan. Line bottom with parchment; butter paper. Dust pan with flour. Melt semisweet chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water. Remove from over water. Add unsalted butter 1 tablespoon at a time, mixing until melted and smooth. Mix in sugar and grated orange peel. Mix in eggs 1 at a time. Stir in egg yolk. Add cake flour and ground ginger, then chopped toasted almonds and crystallized ginger and stir to combine. Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake until just springy to touch, about 1 hour 5 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 15 minutes. Turn out onto rack, remove paper and cool.
Scald whipping cream with Grand Marnier liqueur in heavy small saucepan. Remove from heat. Add semisweet chocolate and mix until smooth. Cool chocolate glaze until thick enough to spread.
Arrange cake flat side up on rack. Spread glaze evenly over top and sides of cake. Refrigerate until glaze if firm, about 30 minutes. Transfer cake to serving platter. (Cake can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Bring to room temperature before serving.)
Cut orange slices in half. Twist three and place in center of cake. Arrange remaining orange slices around edge of platter and serve.

Bûche de Noël with Marzipan Mushrooms 
2/3 cup whole milk
2 large egg yolks
2 tablespoons sugar
3 tablespoons all purpose flour
1/2 cup marzipan, cut into 1/4-inch pieces
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, cut into 6 pieces, room temperature
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
6 large eggs
3/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup all purpose flour
2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
2 tablespoons powdered sugar
3/4 cup whipping cream
3 tablespoons unsalted butter
5 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
4 ounces milk chocolate, chopped
Marzipan Mushrooms

Bring milk to boil in medium saucepan over medium heat. Whisk yolks and sugar in small bowl until well blended; whisk in flour. Whisk hot milk into egg mixture. Return to same saucepan. Whisk over medium heat until custard thickens and boils, about 1 1/2 minutes. Transfer to processor; cool to room temperature, about 1 hour. Add marzipan; process until smooth, about 1 minute. Blend in butter 1 piece at a time, then both extracts. Cover and refrigerate filling at least 4 hours or up to 2 days.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 11x10x1-inch jelly roll pan. Line bottom with parchment paper; butter and flour parchment. Whisk eggs, 3/4 cup sugar, vanilla and salt in large metal bowl. Set bowl over pot of simmering water. Whisk until just warm, about 2 minutes. Remove bowl from over water. Using electric mixer, beat mixture until tripled in volume, about 6 minutes. Sift flour over; fold in until just combined. Gently fold in butter (do not overmix, or batter will deflate). Spread batter in prepared pan. Bake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 20 minutes. Sift powdered sugar over towel. Run knife around edge of pan to loosen cake. Turn hot cake out onto towel. Peel off parchment. Starting at 1 long side and using towel as aid, gently roll up cake jelly-roll style. Cool. Unroll cake. Spread filling over. Reroll cake; place cake, seam side down, on platter. Refrigerate cake while preparing frosting.
Bring cream and butter to boil in medium saucepan over medium-high heat, stirring to melt butter. Remove from heat. Add both chocolates; whisk until melted. Transfer to medium bowl. Let cool at room temperature until thick enough to spread, about 1 hour.
Starting 1 inch in from each end of cake, cut on diagonal to remove one 3-inch-long piece of cake from each end. Attach 1 cake piece at sides of cake near each end. Spread frosting over top and sides of cake and pieces. Using tines of fork, draw concentric circles on cake ends to resemble tree rings. Draw fork along length of cake to form bark design. Garnish with Marzipan Mushrooms.

Gingerbread Christmas Pudding with Orange Hard Sauce 
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons brandy
1 teaspoon grated orange peel
Nonstick vegetable oil spray
11/4 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon ground ginger
2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
3/4 cup sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs
1/2 cup orange marmalade
1/4 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
1 teaspoon grated orange peel

Combine all ingredients in small bowl; stir to blend well. (Can be made 4 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Bring to room temperature before serving.)
Coat inside and center tube of 6- to 8-cup pudding mold or Bundt cake pan with nonstick spray, then generously with butter. Sift flour and next 6 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until well blended. Beat in eggs, 1 at a time, then marmalade, molasses and orange peel. Add flour mixture and beat just until blended. Transfer batter to prepared mold. Cover mold tightly with foil.
Place steamer rack in large pot. Place pudding mold on rack. Fill pot with enough water to come halfway up sides of mold. Bring water to boil. Reduce heat to medium. Cover pot and steam pudding until tester inserted near center comes out clean, adding more boiling water as needed to maintain level, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Using oven mitts as aid, remove mold from pot. Uncover and let stand 10 minutes. Cut around top center and sides of pudding to loosen. Turn pudding out onto rack and cool 20 minutes. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cool completely. Return to mold; cover and chill. Resteam 45 minutes to heat through, then turn out of mold.) Transfer pudding to platter. Cut pudding into wedges; serve with sauce.

Chestnut and Hazelnut Cake 
1/2 cup mild olive oil
1 cup chestnut flour* plus additional for dusting
3/4 cup hazelnuts (3 1/2 oz)
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 large eggs, separated
1/2 cup mild honey
1/4 cup sugar
a 9- to 9 1/2-inch (24-cm) springform pan

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Oil pan and dust with chestnut flour, knocking out excess.
Toast hazelnuts in a shallow baking pan until fragrant and interior of nuts are pale golden, 10 to 12 minutes. Rub nuts in a kitchen towel to remove any loose skins (some skins may not come off). Cool nuts to room temperature and chop medium-fine.
Sift together chestnut flour, baking powder, and salt in bowl, then stir in nuts.
Beat together egg yolks, oil, honey, and 2 tablespoons sugar with an electric mixer at high speed until thick and pale, about 5 minutes in a stand mixer or 8 minutes with a handheld. Add flour mixture and mix at low speed just until flour is moistened.
Beat egg whites and a pinch of salt in another medium bowl with cleaned beaters at medium-high speed until they form soft peaks. Add remaining 2 tablespoons sugar a little at a time, beating, and beat until whites just hold stiff peaks. Fold one third of whites into batter to lighten it, then fold in remaining whites gently but thoroughly. Spread batter in pan and rap pan on work surface once to release any large air bubbles. Bake 30 minutes, then loosely cover with foil and bake until a wooden pick or skewer inserted in center of cake comes out clean, 10 to 15 minutes more. (Cake is naturally dark.)
Transfer cake in pan to a rack and cool 30 minutes, then remove side of pan and cool completely. Remove cake from bottom of pan to serve if desired.

Cherry Cheesecake with Chocolate Almond Crust 
3/4 cup blanched whole almonds, toasted lightly
20 thin chocolate wafer cookies
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup sugar
1/2 teaspoon almond extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 teaspoon unflavored gelatin
1 tablespoon water
3 cups pitted picked-over fresh tart cherries (about 2 pints)
1/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
two 8-ounce packages cream cheese, softened
1 cup sugar
3 tablespoons all-purpose flour
3 large eggs
an 8-ounce container sour cream
2 teaspoons vanilla
1/2 cup cherry juice reserved from making topping

Preheat oven to 350 degrees  F.
In a food processor pulse almonds until ground. Add chocolate wafer cookies and grind fine. Add butter, sugar, almond extract, and salt and pulse until combined well. Transfer mixture to a 9-inch springform pan and press evenly onto bottom and 1 inch up side. Bake crust in middle of oven 10 minutes and transfer to a rack to cool. Crust may be made 3 days ahead and kept, covered, at room temperature.
In a very small bowl sprinkle gelatin over water and let stand about 1 minute to soften. In a heavy saucepan bring cherries, sugar, and lemon juice to a boil, stirring. Remove pan from heat and reserve 1/2 cup juice for filling. To mixture remaining in pan add gelatin mixture and almond extract and stir until gelatin is dissolved.
In a bowl with an electric mixer beat cream cheese with sugar until smooth. Beat in flour and add eggs 1 at a time, beating after each addition. Beat in sour cream, vanilla, and reserved cherry juice until combined well.
Pour filling into crust and bake in middle of oven 50 minutes. (Cake will not be set in center but will set as it cools.) Transfer cake in pan to a rack to cool completely. Chill cake, loosely covered, 1 hour. Remove side of pan and transfer cake to a plate. Spread topping evenly over cake. Chill cake, loosely covered, at least 2 hours and up to 3 days.

Pumpkin-Chocolate Chip Loaf Cake 
1 3/4 cups unbleached all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons pumpkin pie spice
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon baking powder
3/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 1/4 cups sugar
3 large eggs
1 cup canned pure pumpkin
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup whole milk
3/4 cup miniature semisweet chocolate chips
3/4 cup chopped walnuts

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 9x5x2 1/2-inch metal loaf pan. Sift first 5 ingredients into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until smooth. Gradually beat in sugar, then beat in eggs 1 at a time. Beat in pumpkin and vanilla. Beat dry ingredients into pumpkin mixture alternately with milk. Stir in chocolate chips and nuts. Transfer batter to prepared pan.
Bake loaf cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 55 minutes. Cool in pan on rack 15 minutes. Turn cake out onto rack; cool completely. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Wrap in plastic; store at room temperature.)

Coconut Layer Cake 
2 3/4 cups all purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 3/4 cups sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup canned sweetened cream of coconut (such as Coco López)*
4 large eggs, separated
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup buttermilk
Pinch of salt
Cream Cheese Frosting
4 cups sweetened shredded coconut
*Canned sweetened cream of coconut is available in the liquor section of most supermarkets nationwide.

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Whisk flour, baking powder, baking soda and 1/2 teaspoon salt in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, butter and sweetened cream of coconut in large bowl until fluffy. Beat in egg yolks and vanilla extract. On low speed, beat in dry ingredients and then buttermilk, each just until blended.
Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites with pinch of salt in another large bowl until stiff but not dry. Fold beaten egg whites into batter.
Divide cake batter between prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 45 minutes. Cool cakes in pans on rack 10 minutes. Run small sharp knife around pan sides to loosen cakes. Turn cakes out onto racks and cool completely.
Place 1 cake layer on cake plate. Spread 1 cup Cream Cheese Frosting over cake layer. Sprinkle 1 cup sweetened shredded coconut over. Top with second cake layer. Spread remaining frosting over top and sides of cake. Sprinkle remaining coconut over cake, gently pressing into sides to adhere. (Coconut Layer Cake can be prepared up to 1 day ahead. Cover with plastic wrap and refrigerate. Let stand at room temperature 2 hours before serving.)

Caramel-Orange Bûche de Noël 
6 large egg yolks
1/3 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
2 tablespoons all purpose flour
1 1/2 cups half and half
8 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt), chopped
1 1/2 teaspoons grated orange peel
1 1/2 cups toasted sliced almonds
2 tablespoons unbleached all purpose flour
6 large eggs, separated
10 tablespoons firmly packed dark brown sugar
1 teaspoon grated orange peel
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/2 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/8 teaspoon salt
Powdered sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 tablespoon Grand Marnier or other orange liqueur
Pine twigs
1 cup sugar
2 tablespoons water
1/2 cup cranberries

Whisk egg yolks, sugar and flour in medium bowl to blend well. Bring half and half to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Slowly whisk hot half and half into egg mixture. Return egg mixture to same saucepan and cook until mixture boils and thickens, whisking constantly. Transfer mixture to medium bowl. Add chocolate and orange peel and stir until mixture is smooth. Press plastic wrap onto surface of pastry cream to prevent skin from forming. Cool completely. (Pastry cream can be prepared 1 day ahead. Refrigerate. Bring to room temperature before continuing.)
Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. Butter 11x17-inch jelly roll pan. Line with parchment. Butter and flour parchment. Coarsely grind toasted almonds with flour in processor. Using electric mixer, beat yolks with 5 tablespoons brown sugar in medium bowl until slowly dissolving ribbons form when beaters are lifted. Stir in orange peel and vanilla extract. Using clean dry beaters, beat whites with cream of tartar and salt in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 5 tablespoons brown sugar and beat until stiff but not dry. Fold whites into yolk mixture. Gently fold in almond mixture.
Spread batter evenly in prepared pan. Bake until toothpick inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Run small sharp knife around pan sides if necessary to loosen cake. Slide cake on parchment onto rack. Cool.
Slide cake on parchment onto work surface. Loosen cake from parchment using knife as aid. Sift powdered sugar over cake. Invert onto cookie sheet. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and invert onto another parchment sheet.
Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Beat in Grand Marnier. Add pastry cream 1/4 cup at a time, beating after each addition until just blended.
Spread half of buttercream over cake, leaving 1/2-inch border. Starting at 1 long side, roll up cake jelly roll fashion. Arrange seam side down on parchment. Set aside 1/2 cup buttercream; spread remaining buttercream over cake. Cut 2 inches off each end of cake, cutting on diagonal. Transfer cake to platter. Attach ends to top of cake, forming branches. Spread reserved 1/2 cup buttercream over cake ends and seams. Cover and refrigerate at least 1 hour to firm buttercream. (Cake can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Let cake stand at room temperature 20 minutes before serving.)
Arrange pine twigs on cake and on platter. Garnish with cranberries.
Cook 1/2 cup sugar and 2 tablespoons water in heavy small saucepan over low heat, stirring until sugar dissolves. Transfer to top of double boiler. Add cranberries. Cover berry mixture and place over simmering water. Cook 45 minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from over water. Let cranberry mixture stand at room temperature overnight.
Place remaining 1/2 cup sugar on plate. Drain cranberries well. Add to sugar and turn to coat. Let dry at least 30 minutes. (Can be prepared 3 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)

Double Chocolate Torte 
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 cup unsalted butter
1 cup sugar
5 large eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/4 cup all purpose flour
1/2 cup unsalted butter, cut into pieces
4 large eggs, separated
1 cup whipping cream
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped
1/2 cup plus 1 1/2 teaspoons sugar
2 cups fresh raspberries
2 tablespoons red currant jelly melted with 1 tablespoon water
Red currant bunches (optional)

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Butter 10-inch-diameter springform pan; dust with sugar. Melt chocolate and butter in heavy large saucepan over low heat, stirring constantly. Cool to lukewarm. Whisk in sugar. Whisk in eggs 1 at a time, blending well after each addition. Mix in vanilla and salt, then flour. Pour batter into pan. Bake until cake just rises in center (tester inserted into center will not come out clean), about 35 minutes. Cool completely in pan on rack. Cover; chill while making mousse.
Melt butter in medium metal bowl set over saucepan of simmering water (do not allow bottom of bowl to touch water). Whisk yolks, 1/4 cup cream and vanilla in small bowl to blend. Gradually whisk yolk mixture into bowl with melted butter. Whisk constantly over simmering water until thermometer registers 150 degrees F, about 6 minutes (mixture may appear broken). Remove from over water; add chocolate and stir to melt. Set aside. Beat egg whites and 1/2 cup sugar in large bowl to medium-stiff peaks. Whisk 1/4 of beaten egg white mixture into warm chocolate mixture to lighten. Fold in remaining egg white mixture. Pour mousse over cake in pan; smooth top. Chill torte until mousse is set, at least 6 hours and up to 1 day.
Run sharp knife around edge of pan to loosen torte. Release pan sides. Transfer torte to platter. Using electric mixer, beat 3/4 cup cream in medium bowl until peaks form. Spread whipped cream over torte. Top whipped cream with raspberries. Brush red currant jelly mixture over raspberries. Sprinkle with 1 1/2 teaspoons sugar. Garnish with currants, if desired.

Ginger Spice Cookies 
2 cups all purpose flour
2 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground cloves
3/4 teaspoon salt
3/4 cup chopped crystallized ginger
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
1/2 cup vegetable shortening, room temperature
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 large egg
1/4 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
Sugar

Combine first 6 ingredients in medium bowl; whisk to blend. Mix in crystallized ginger. Using electric mixer, beat brown sugar, shortening and butter in large bowl until fluffy. Add egg and molasses and beat until blended. Add flour mixture and mix just until blended. Cover and refrigerate 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Lightly butter 2 baking sheets. Spoon sugar in thick layer onto small plate. Using wet hands, form dough into 1 1/4-inch balls; roll in sugar to coat completely. Place balls on prepared sheets, spacing 2 inches apart.
Bake cookies until cracked on top but still soft to touch, about 12 minutes. Cool on sheets 1 minute. Carefully transfer to racks and cool. (Can be made 5 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)

White Chocolate and Raspberry Cheesecake 
18 vanilla wafer cookies
1 cup almonds, toasted
4 1/2 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
4 ounces imported white chocolate (such as Lindt), chopped
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
2/3 cup sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 teaspoon grated lemon peel
2 large eggs
3/4 cup fresh raspberries or frozen unsweetened, thawed, drained
1 8-ounce container sour cream
3 tablespoons sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 1/2-pint baskets raspberries or one 1-pint basket strawberries
1/2 cup seedless raspberry jam

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place large piece of foil on heavy large baking sheet. Set 8x2-inch bottomless heart-shaped cake pan atop foil. (If unavailable, use 8-inch springform pan; omit foil.) Wrap foil around outside and 1 inch up sides of pan. Butter foil and pan. Finely grind cookies and almonds in processor. Add butter and blend until mixture forms very moist crumbs. Using plastic wrap as aid, press crumbs firmly onto bottom and 2 inches up sides of pan. Bake until golden, about 10 minutes. Cool. Maintain oven temperature.
Melt white chocolate in top of double boiler over simmering water until smooth, stirring often. Remove from over water. Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese, sugar, vanilla and peel in large bowl until smooth. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until combined. Beat in white chocolate.
Spoon half of batter into crust. Top with 3/4 cup berries. Spoon remaining batter over. Bake until edges of cake are set but center 3 inches still moves when cake is shaken, about 45 minutes. Cool 20 minutes. Maintain oven temperature. Using fingertips, press down gently on edges of cheesecake to flatten slightly.
Whisk sour cream, sugar and vanilla in bowl. Spoon over cake, spreading to edge of pan. Bake 5 minutes. Transfer cake in pan to rack. Run small knife around sides of cake. Cool completely. Chill cake overnight.
Fold down foil along sides of pan. Lift cake pan off cheesecake. Transfer cheesecake to platter, discarding foil. Cover cake with berries. Bring jam to simmer in small saucepan, stirring often. Gently brush jam over berries. (Can be prepared 3 hours ahead; chill.)

Gramercy Tavern Gingerbread 
1 cup oatmeal stout or Guinness Stout
1 cup dark molasses (not blackstrap)
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
2 tablespoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
Pinch of ground cardamom
3 large eggs
1 cup packed dark brown sugar
1 cup granulated sugar
3/4 cup vegetable oil
Confectioners sugar for dusting
a 10-inch (10- to 12-cup) bundt pan
unsweetened whipped cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Generously butter bundt pan and dust with flour, knocking out excess.
Bring stout and molasses to a boil in a large saucepan and remove from heat. Whisk in baking soda, then cool to room temperature.
Sift together flour, baking powder, and spices in a large bowl. Whisk together eggs and sugars. Whisk in oil, then molasses mixture. Add to flour mixture and whisk until just combined.
Pour batter into bundt pan and rap pan sharply on counter to eliminate air bubbles. Bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out with just a few moist crumbs adhering, about 50 minutes. Cool cake in pan on a rack 5 minutes. Turn out onto rack and cool completely.
Serve cake, dusted with confectioners sugar, with whipped cream.

Dark Moist Chocolate Cake 
16 ounces good-quality semisweet chocolate
10 tablespoons unsalted butter
5 extra-large eggs

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Line the bottom of an 8 1/2-inch springform pan with parchment paper or aluminum foil. Coat inside of pan with nonstick cooking spray.
Chop chocolate into pieces. Cut butter into small chunks. Place chocolate and butter in a double boiler or in a large metal bowl over simmering water, making sure bowl doesn't touch water. Melt, stirring frequently, until smooth. Remove from heat.
Whisk eggs and a pinch of salt in bowl of an electric mixer, until mixture triples in volume, about 8 minutes. Fold chocolate mixture into egg mixture with a flexible rubber spatula until completely incorporated.
Pour mixture into prepared pan. Bake for 20 minutes. The center will still be a little soft. Remove from oven. Let cool at least 30 minutes before cutting. The center will sink a little as it cools. You can refrigerate the cake for up to 2 days (let sit at room temperature for 1 hour before serving).

Bourbon Pumpkin Cheesecake 
3/4 cup graham cracker crumbs (from five 4 3/4- by 2 1/4-inch crackers)
1/2 cup pecans (1 3/4 ounces), finely chopped
1/4 cup packed light brown sugar
1/4 cup granulated sugar
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
1 1/2 cups canned solid-pack pumpkin
3 large eggs
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
2 tablespoons heavy cream
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 tablespoon bourbon liqueur or bourbon (optional)
1/2 cup granulated sugar
1 tablespoon cornstarch
1 1/2 teaspoons cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 (8-ounce) packages cream cheese, at room temperature
2 cups sour cream (20 ounces)
2 tablespoons granulated sugar
1 tablespoon bourbon liqueur or bourbon (optional)
Garnish: pecan halves

Invert bottom of a 9-inch springform pan (to create flat bottom, which will make it easier to remove cake from pan), then lock on side and butter pan.
Stir together crumbs, pecans, sugars, and butter in a bowl until combined well. Press crumb mixture evenly onto bottom and 1/2 inch up side of pan, then chill crust, 1 hour.
Put oven rack in middle position and Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together pumpkin, eggs, brown sugar, cream, vanilla, and liqueur (if using) in a bowl until combined.
Stir together granulated sugar, cornstarch, cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger, and salt in large bowl. Add cream cheese and beat with an electric mixer at high speed until creamy and smooth, about 3 minutes. Reduce speed to medium, then add pumpkin mixture and beat until smooth.
Pour filling into crust, smoothing top, then put springform pan in a shallow baking pan (in case springform leaks). Bake until center is just set, 50 to 60 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool 5 minutes. (Leave oven on.)
Whisk together sour cream, sugar, and liqueur (if using) in a bowl, then spread on top of cheesecake and bake 5 minutes.
Cool cheesecake completely in pan on rack, about 3 hours.
Chill, covered, until cold, at least 4 hours. Remove side of pan and bring to room temperature before serving.

Peanut Butter Cupcakes 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
Rounded 1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup smooth peanut butter
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
2/3 cup whole milk
1/3 cup heavy cream
4 ounces milk chocolate, finely chopped
1/3 cup chopped peanuts
a muffin tin with 12 (1/2-cup) muffin cups and paper liners

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt in a bowl.
Beat together peanut butter, butter, and brown sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until blended, about 2 minutes. Add egg and vanilla and beat until fluffy, about 1 minute. Reduce speed to low and add flour mixture and milk alternately in batches, beginning and ending with flour mixture, then mix until just combined.
Divide batter among lined muffin cups (about two-thirds full) and bake in middle of oven until pale golden and a tester inserted in center of a cupcake comes out clean, 18 to 20 minutes. Turn cupcakes out onto a rack and cool completely.
Bring cream to a boil in a small saucepan, then pour over chocolate in a small bowl. Let stand 1 minute, then whisk until smooth.
To thicken icing to spreading consistency quickly, spread it on a metal baking sheet and chill until thick and glossy, about 5 minutes. Scrape icing back into bowl and stir until smooth. Spread icing on cupcakes and sprinkle with peanuts.

Mascarpone Cheesecake 
70 vanilla wafers (8 1/2 oz), finely ground in a food processor (2 1/3 cups)
1 1/4 sticks (10 tablespoons) unsalted butter, melted and cooled
20 oz cream cheese (2 1/2 eight-ounce packages), softened
8 oz mascarpone cheese at room temperature (about 1 cup)
3/4 cup sugar
3 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup sour cream
1/4 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice
1/8 teaspoon salt

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter bottom and side of a 9-inch springform pan.
Stir together cookie crumbs and butter in a bowl. Reserve 1/4 cup crumb mixture for sprinkling over cheesecake, then pat remainder onto bottom and 1 1/2 inches up side of springform pan (about 1 inch thick). Put pan in a shallow baking pan and bake until golden, about 10 minutes. Cool completely on a rack, about 25 minutes. Leave oven on.
Beat cream cheese, mascarpone, and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium high speed until fluffy, 3 to 5 minutes. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add vanilla, lemon juice, and salt and mix at low speed until combined. Pour into cooled crust and bake until cake is set and puffed around edge but still trembles slightly when pan is shaken gently, 25 to 30 minutes. Cool slightly in springform pan on rack, about 20 minutes. (Cheesecake will continue to set as it cools.) Leave oven on.
Stir together sour cream, sugar, vanilla, lemon juice, and salt in a small bowl and spoon over cheesecake, spreading gently and evenly, leaving a 1/4-inch border around edge.
Bake cheesecake until topping is set, about 10 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge to help prevent cracking. Sprinkle top with reserved crumbs and cool completely in pan on rack, then chill, loosely covered, at least 8 hours.

Fresh Ginger Cake 
4 ounces fresh ginger
1 cup mild molasses
1 cup sugar
1 cup vegetable oil, preferably peanut
2 1/2 cups flour
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/2 teaspoon ground black pepper
1 cup water
2 teaspoons baking soda
2 eggs, at room temperature

Position the oven rack in the center of the oven. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Line a 9 by 3-inch round cake pan or a 9 1/2 inch springform pan with a circle of parchment paper.
Peel, slice, and chop the ginger very fine with a knife (or use a grater). Mix together the molasses, sugar, and oil. In another bowl, sift together the flour, cinnamon, cloves and black pepper.
Bring the water to the boil in a saucepan, stir in the baking soda, and then mix the hot water into the molasses mixture. Stir in the ginger.
Gradually whisk the dry ingredients into the batter. Add the eggs, and continue mixing until everything is thoroughly combined. Pour the batter into the prepared cake pan and bake for about 1 hour, until the top of the cake springs back lightly when pressed or a toothpick inserted into the center comes out clean. If the top of the cake browns too quickly before the cake is done, drape a piece of foil over it and continue baking.
Cool the cake for at least 30 minutes. Run a knife around the edge of the cake to loosen it from the pan. Remove the cake from the pan and peel off the parchment paper.

Blueberry Cheesecake 
2 1/3 cups graham cracker crumbs
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1/4 cup sugar
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/4 cup all purpose flour
5 large eggs
1 16-ounce container sour cream
1/4 cup milk
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup all-fruit blueberry spread
2 6-ounce baskets fresh blueberries or 12-ounce package frozen blueberries, thawed, drained

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 375 degrees F. Wrap outside of 10-inch-diameter springform pan with heavy-duty foil. Combine all ingredients in processor. Blend using on/off turns just until crumbs are moist. Press crumb mixture firmly onto bottom and 2 inches up sides of prepared pan. Bake until crust begins to brown, about 8 minutes. Transfer crust to rack and cool. Maintain oven temperature.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until will blended. Beat in flour. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until combined. Beat in sour cream, milk and vanilla. Pour filling into crust.
Place springform pan in large roasting pan. Pour enough hot water into roasting pan to come 1 inch up sides of pan. Bake cheesecake until just set in center and top is slightly puffed and golden brown, about 1 hour. Turn off oven; keep door closed. Let cheesecake stand in oven 1 hour. Remove cheesecake from roasting pan. Refrigerate until cold, at least 6 hours. Cover; refrigerate overnight.
Stir blueberry spread in large skillet over low heat until melted. Remove from heat. Add blueberries; toss to coat. Spoon blueberry mixture over top of cake, spreading evenly. Chill until cold, at least 1 hour and up to 4 hours.
Run small sharp knife around sides of cake to loosen. Release pan sides. Transfer cake to platter. Cut into wedges.

Coconut Shortbread Cookies 
1 cup unsweetened shredded coconut* (about 3 ounces)
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
1 1/4 teaspoons coarse kosher salt
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
2 2/3 cups all purpose flour

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Spread coconut on rimmed baking sheet. Bake until coconut is light golden, stirring occasionally, about 8 minutes. Cool completely.
Using electric mixer, beat butter and sugar in large bowl until well blended. Mix in salt and vanilla. Beat in flour in 2 additions. Stir in toasted coconut. Gather dough together; divide in half. Flatten each half into disk; wrap each in plastic and chill at least 1 hour. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Keep chilled. Soften slightly at room temperature before rolling out.)
Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Line 2 rimmed baking sheets with parchment paper. Roll out 1 dough disk on lightly floured work surface to scant 1/4-inch thickness. Using 1 3/4- to 2-inch-diameter cookie cutters, cut dough into rounds. Transfer cookies to prepared baking sheets, spacing 1 inch apart. Gather dough scraps and reroll; cut out additional cookies. Repeat procedure with remaining dough disk until all of dough is used.
Bake cookies until light golden, about 20 minutes. Cool on baking sheets 10 minutes. Transfer cookies to racks and cool completely. (Can be made ahead. Store airtight at room temperature up to 1 week.)
*Available at natural foods stores and some supermarkets.

Ginger and Chocolate Chip Hearts 
3 cups all purpose flour
1 cup sugar
7 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
3/8 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups (3 sticks) chilled unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces
2 1/4 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups pecans (about 6 ounces)
1 cup mini chocolate chips
9 tablespoons finely chopped crystallized ginger
Sugar

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine first 4 ingredients in processor and blend. Add butter and vanilla and cut in until mixture resembles fine meal, using on/off turns. Add pecans and process until finely chopped. Add chocolate chips and ginger and mix in.
Transfer mixture to bowl and gather together. Divide into thirds. Roll 1 piece out between sheets of waxed paper to thickness of 1/4 inch. Cut out cookies, using 3-inch heart-shaped cutter. Transfer to ungreased cookie sheets. Gather scraps. Repeat rolling and cutting with remaining dough. Re-roll scraps and cut additional cookies. Sprinkle cookies with sugar. Bake until just beginning to color, about 20 minutes. Cool on sheets on rack 5 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool. (Cookies can be prepared 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Apricot Ginger Biscotti 
1/3 cup dried apricots (about 2 ounces)
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon water
1 1/3 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
2 tablespoons chopped candied ginger (about 1 ounce)

Preheat oven to 325 degrees  F. Lightly butter a baking sheet and dust with flour, knocking out excess flour.
In a bowl soak apricots in boiling hot water to cover 5 minutes. Drain apricots well and pat them dry with paper towels. Chop apricots fine. In another bowl lightly whisk together eggs and transfer 1 teaspoon egg to a small bowl. Whisk water into the 1 teaspoon egg and reserve egg wash.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer blend flour, sugar, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. Add remaining egg and vanilla and beat until a dough forms (dough will be sticky). Stir in apricots and ginger.
Turn dough out onto a floured surface and knead 6 times. Working on baking sheet, with floured hands form dough into a 6 1/2- by 4 1/2-inch rectangle. Brush rectangle with some reserved egg wash and bake in middle of oven 30 minutes. Cool rectangle on baking sheet on a rack 10 minutes. Loosen rectangle from baking sheet with a metal spatula and carefully transfer to a cutting board.
Cut rectangle crosswise into 1/2-inch-thick slices. Arrange biscotti, cut side down, on baking sheet and bake 10 minutes on each side, or until pale golden. Transfer biscotti to rack and cool. Biscotti keep in an airtight container at room temperature 3 days or frozen 1 month.

Ashkenazic Sour Cream Coffee Cake (Smeteneh Küchen) 
1/2 cup granulated or brown sugar, or 1/4 cup each
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg or cloves (optional)
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter or margarine, softened
1/2 cup coarsely chopped walnuts or pecans, grated coconut, golden raisins, or chocolate chips, or 1 cup any combination (optional)
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon double-acting baking powder
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter or margarine, softened
1 cup granulated or brown sugar or 1/2 cup each
4 large egg yolks, or 3 large eggs
1 cup (8 ounces) sour cream or plain yogurt
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon finely grated lemon zest (optional)
1 cup confectioners' sugar
1/2 teaspoon vanilla or almond extract
1 to 2 tablespoons milk or water

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F (325 degrees F if using a glass pan). Grease one 9-inch square pan,9-inch Bundt or tube pan, or 9-inch springform pan. Line with parchment or waxed paper, grease again, and dust with flour.
2. To make the streusel: Combine the sugar, flour, cinnamon, salt, and nutmeg if using. Cut in the butter to resemble coarse crumbs. If desired, stir in the nuts.
3. To make the batter: Sift together the flour, baking powder, baking soda, and salt. In a large bowl, beat the butter until smooth, about 1 minute. Gradually add the sugar and beat until light and fluffy, about 4 minutes. Beat in the egg yolks, one at a time. Blend in the sour cream, vanilla, and zest if using. Stir in the flour mixture.
4. Spread half of the batter in the prepared pan. Sprinkle with half of the streusel. Carefully cover with the remaining batter and sprinkle with the remaining streusel.
5. Bake unitl the cake is golden and pulls away from the sides of the pan, about 50 minutes. Set on a rack and let cool in the pan for at least 15 minutes. Serve warm or at room temperature. Wrap the kuchen in plastic and store at room temperature for up to 2 days or in the freezer for up to 3 months.
6. To make the glaze if using: Combine all the glaze ingredients, stirring until smooth and of pouring consistency. Drizzle over the cake and let stand until set.
When baking and storing a cake containing acidic ingredients such as sour cream in an aluminum pan, line the bottom with parchment paper to prevent the juices from reacting with the aluminum and creating a metallic flavor.
Spread all the batter in a 13-by-9-inch pan, sprinkle with all of the topping, and bake for 30 to 35 minutes.
After adding the middle layer of streusel, top with 1 cup peeled, cored, and thinkly sliced cooking apples, 1 cup peeled, pitted, and sliced peaches, or 1 cup pitted cherries, blueberries, blackberries, or raspberries.
Combine 8 ounces softened cream chees, 1/4 cup sugar, 1 large egg, and 1 teaspoon vanilla extract. Spread over the top of the batter, leaving a 1-inch border on all sides. If desired, spread 1/2 cup melted blueberry, cherry, raspberry, or strawberry preserves or pie filling over the cheese mixture. Sprinkle with the streusel.

Mixed Dried Fruit Oatmeal Cookies 
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
3/4 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
1 large egg, beaten lightly
1/2 teaspoon baking soda dissolved in 1 tablespoon warm water
2/3 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups of old-fashioned rolled oats
1/2 cup chopped dried apricots
1/2 cup chopped pitted prunes
1/2 cup dried sour cherries or dried cranberries (available at specialty foods shops)

In a large bowl cream the butter with the brown sugar and beat in the egg, the baking soda mixture, the flour, the salt, and the vanilla. Stir in the oats, the apricots, the prunes, and the cherries and combine the dough well. Drop rounded tablespoons of the dough about 4 inches apart onto greased baking sheets and with a fork dipped in cold water flatten and spread each mound into a thin round, about 2 1/2 inches in diameter. Bake the cookies in batches in the middle of a preheated 375 degrees F. oven 8 to 10 minutes, or until they are golden, transfer them with a spatula to racks, and let them cool. The cookies keep in an airtight container at room temperature for 5 days.

Triple-Chocolate Cake with Chocolate-Peppermint Filling 
8 ounces imported milk chocolate (such as Lindt), finely chopped
1/2 cup whipping cream
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
1/2 teaspoon peppermint extract
1 cup sifted all purpose flour
1/3 cup unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1/4 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 large eggs
1/2 cup buttermilk
1 1/2 cups miniature semisweet chocolate chips
8 ounces bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, finely chopped
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, cut into pieces
1 tablespoon light corn syrup
3/4 teaspoon peppermint extract
12 whole red-and-white-striped hard peppermint candies, chopped
Fresh mint leaves

Place chocolate in medium bowl. Bring cream and corn syrup to simmer in small saucepan. Pour hot mixture over chocolate; add extract and let stand 1 minute. Whisk until mixture is smooth. Let filling stand at room temperature while cake is baking and cooling.
Position rack in lowest third of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch-diameter cake pan with 2-inch-high sides. Line bottom with parchment paper. Butter parchment. Dust pan with flour. Whisk first 5 ingredients in medium bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter in large bowl until light and fluffy. Gradually beat in both sugars, then vanilla. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Beat in dry ingredients alternately with buttermilk in 2 additions each. Mix in chocolate chips.
Transfer batter to prepared pan. Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 1 hour 5 minutes. Cool cake in pan on rack 5 minutes. Turn out cake onto rack. Peel off parchment. Cool completely.
Using electric mixer, beat filling until fluffy and lightened in color, about 30 seconds. Using serrated knife, cut cake horizontally in half. Place 1 layer, cut side up, on rack set over baking sheet. Spread filling over. Top with second layer, cut side down. Chill filled cake 20 minutes.
Stir chocolate, butter, and corn syrup in heavy small saucepan over low heat until melted and smooth. Mix in extract. Cool glaze until just lukewarm but still pourable, stirring occasionally, about 20 minutes.
Pour 1/2 cup glaze over center of cake. Spread over top and sides of cake. Chill until glaze sets, about 15 minutes. Pour remaining glaze over center of cake, then spread quickly over top and sides. Chill until glaze sets, about 1 hour. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover with cake dome; chill. Before continuing, let stand at room temperature until softened, about 4 hours.)
Sprinkle candies around top edge of cake. Garnish with fresh mint leaves.

Anise-Almond Biscotti 
3 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
1/3 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups sugar
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter, melted
3 large eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
2 teaspoons aniseed, ground
1 cup whole almonds, toasted, coarsely chopped
1 large egg white

Position rack in center of oven and preheat to 350 degrees F. Line baking sheet with parchment paper. Sift flour, baking powder and salt into medium bowl. Mix sugar, melted butter, 3 eggs, vanilla extract and ground aniseed in large bowl. Add flour mixture to egg mixture and stir with wooden spoon until well blended. Mix in almonds.
Divide dough in half. Using floured hands, shape each dough half into 13 1/2-inch-long, 2 1/2-inch-wide log. Transfer both logs to prepared baking sheet, spacing apart. Whisk egg white in small bowl until foamy; brush over top and sides of each dough log.
Bake logs until golden brown (logs will spread), about 30 minutes. Cool logs completely on sheet on rack, about 25 minutes. Maintain oven temperature.
Transfer logs to work surface; discard parchment paper. Using serrated knife, cut logs on diagonal into 1/2-inch-wide slices. Arrange slices, cut side down, on same baking sheet. Bake 12 minutes. Turn biscotti over; bake until just beginning to color, about 8 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool. (Can be prepared 1 week ahead. Store in airtight container at room temperature.)

Spotted Dick 
1/2 cup mixed currants and golden raisins or other assorted dried fruit
1/2 teaspoon finely grated fresh lemon zest
Suet pastry dough
Custard sauce
1-quart ceramic pudding mold

Fill a large heavy pot (at least 8 inches across by 6 inches deep, with a tight-fitting lid) with 1 1/2 inches water. Make a platform for pudding by setting metal cookie cutters or egg-poaching rings in bottom of pot. Knead fruit and zest into dough and form dough into a ball. Put into well-buttered pudding mold and flatten top. Top dough with a round of buttered wax paper, buttered side down, and cover top of mold with heavy-duty foil, crimping tightly around edge.
Bring water in pot to a boil and set mold on platform. Steam pudding, covered, over simmering water 1 1/2 to 2 hours (add more boiling water to pot if necessary), or until golden and puffed. Transfer pudding in mold to a rack and let stand 5 minutes. Discard foil and wax paper and run a thin knife around edge of pudding. Invert a plate over mold, then invert pudding onto plate. Serve immediately with custard sauce.

Chocolate Stout Cake 
2 cups stout (such as Guinness)
2 cups (4 sticks) unsalted butter
1 1/2 cups unsweetened cocoa powder (preferably Dutch-process)
4 cups all purpose flour
4 cups sugar
1 tablespoon baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
4 large eggs
1 1/3 cups sour cream
2 cups whipping cream
1 pound bittersweet (not unsweetened) or semisweet chocolate, chopped

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter three 8-inch round cake pans with 2-inch-high sides. Line with parchment paper. Butter paper. Bring 2 cups stout and 2 cups butter to simmer in heavy large saucepan over medium heat. Add cocoa powder and whisk until mixture is smooth. Cool slightly.
Whisk flour, sugar, baking soda, and 1 1/2 teaspoons salt in large bowl to blend. Using electric mixer, beat eggs and sour cream in another large bowl to blend. Add stout-chocolate mixture to egg mixture and beat just to combine. Add flour mixture and beat briefly on slow speed. Using rubber spatula, fold batter until completely combined. Divide batter equally among prepared pans. Bake cakes until tester inserted into center of cakes comes out clean, about 35 minutes. Transfer cakes to rack; cool 10 minutes. Turn cakes out onto rack and cool completely.
Bring cream to simmer in heavy medium saucepan. Remove from heat. Add chopped chocolate and whisk until melted and smooth. Refrigerate until icing is spreadable, stirring frequently, about 2 hours.
Place 1 cake layer on plate. Spread 2/3 cup icing over. Top with second cake layer. Spread 2/3 cup icing over. Top with third cake layer. Spread remaining icing over top and sides of cake.

Sour Cream-Orange Coffee Cake with Chocolate-Pecan Streusel 
1 1/2 cups (packed) golden brown sugar
1 tablespoon ground cinnamon
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) chilled salted butter, diced
1 1/2 cups coarsely chopped pecans
1 cup (6 ounces) semisweet chocolate chips
3 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons baking powder
1 1/3 cups sugar
3/4 cup (1 1/2 sticks) salted butter, room temperature
3 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons grated orange peel
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 1/2 cups sour cream
1/4 cup orange juice
Powdered sugar

Whisk brown sugar and cinnamon in medium bowl to blend. Add butter and rub in with fingertips until mixture holds together in small, moist clumps. Mix in pecans and chocolate chips. (Can be made up to 3 days ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter and flour 13x9x2-inch metal baking pan. Sift flour, baking soda, and baking powder into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and butter in large bowl until blended and smooth. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, then orange peel and vanilla extract. Mix in flour mixture in 4 additions alternately with sour cream in 3 additions. Mix in orange juice. Spread half of batter in prepared pan. Sprinkle with half of streusel. Drop remaining batter over by heaping tablespoonfuls; carefully spread batter to make even layer. Sprinkle with remaining streusel.
Bake cake 30 minutes. Lay sheet of foil loosely over pan to keep topping from browning too quickly. Continue baking until tester inserted into center of cake comes out clean, about 35 minutes longer. Remove foil. Cool cake in pan on rack 20 minutes. Dust with powdered sugar; serve warm or at room temperature. (Can be made 2 days ahead. Cool completely. Store airtight at room temperature.)

Chocolate-Covered Gingerbread Cake 
1 3/4 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 teaspoon baking powder
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/4 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup warm water
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
3/4 cup (packed) golden brown sugar
6 tablespoons (3/4 stick) unsalted butter, melted
1/3 cup mild-flavored (light) molasses
2 large eggs
1 tablespoon grated peeled fresh ginger
1/2 cup whipping cream
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
8 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 cup chopped crystallized ginger

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9-inch square metal baking pan. Line bottom with parchment paper. Butter parchment. Whisk first 6 ingredients in medium bowl to blend.
Mix warm water and baking soda in small bowl until baking soda dissolves. Using electric mixer, beat sugar, butter, molasses, eggs, and fresh ginger in large bowl until well blended. Add dry ingredients in 3 additions, alternating with water mixture in 2 additions, beating until just combined. Pour batter into prepared pan.
Bake cake until tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool on rack 20 minutes. Run knife around edge of cake to loosen. Invert cake onto rack; cool. Peel off parchment.
Bring first 3 ingredients to simmer in medium saucepan. Remove from heat. Add chocolate and vanilla; stir until smooth. Let stand until cool but still pourable, about 20 minutes.
Place cake on rack set atop baking sheet. Reserve 1/2 cup glaze. Pour remaining glaze over cake, spreading with spatula to coat top and sides. Chill cake and reserved glaze until reserved glaze is just firm enough to pipe, about 1 hour.
Transfer reserved glaze to pastry bag fitted with 1/4-inch plain tip. Pipe 5 diagonal lines atop cake, spacing evenly. Cluster crystallized ginger atop lines. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate. Bring to room temperature before serving.)

Pumpkin Cheesecake with Caramel Swirl 
1 1/2 cups ground gingersnap cookies
1 1/2 cups toasted pecans (about 6 ounces)
1/4 cup firmly packed brown sugar
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 2/3 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups canned solid pack pumpkin
9 tablespoons whipping cream
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground allspice
4 large eggs
1 tablespoon (about) purchased caramel sauce
1 cup sour cream

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Finely grind ground cookies, pecans and sugar in processor. Add melted butter and blend until combined. Press crust mixture onto bottom and up sides of 9-inch-diameter springform pan with 2 3/4-inch-high sides.
Using electric mixer, beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until light. Transfer 3/4 cup mixture to small bowl; cover tightly and refrigerate to use for topping. Add pumpkin, 4 tablespoons whipping cream, ground cinnamon and ground allspice to mixture in large bowl and beat until well combined. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating just until combined. Pour filling into crust (filling will almost fill pan). Bake until cheesecake puffs, top browns and center moves only slightly when pan is shaken, about 1 hour 15 minutes. Transfer cheesecake to rack and cool 10 minutes. Run small sharp knife around cake pan sides to loosen cheesecake. Cool. Cover tightly and refrigerate overnight.
Bring remaining 3/4 cup cream cheese mixture to room temperature. Add remaining 5 tablespoons whipping cream to cream cheese mixture and stir to combine. Press down firmly on edges of cheesecake to even thickness. Pour cream cheese mixture over cheesecake, spreading evenly. Spoon caramel sauce in lines over cream cheese mixture. Using tip of knife, swirl caramel sauce into cream cheese mixture. (Can be prepared 1 day ahead. Cover and refrigerate.)
Release pan sides from cheesecake. Spoon sour cream into pastry bag fitted with small star tip (do not stir before using). Pipe decorative border around cheesecake and serve.

Mocha Layer Cake with Chocolate-Rum Cream Filling 
4 cups whipping cream
1/4 cup (1/2 stick) unsalted butter
1/4 cup sugar
20 ounces semisweet chocolate, finely chopped; plus 2 ounces, chopped separately
1/3 cup dark rum
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1/4 cup water
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons dark rum
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3/4 teaspoon instant coffee powder
2/3 cup cake flour
3 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
3 large eggs, separated
3/4 cup sugar
1/4 teaspoon cream of tartar
1/4 teaspoon salt

Stir first 3 ingredients in heavy large saucepan over medium-high heat until sugar dissolves and cream comes to simmer. Remove from heat. Add 20 ounces chocolate; whisk until melted and smooth. Whisk in rum and vanilla. Transfer 1 cup warm chocolate mixture to small bowl; whisk remaining 2 ounces chocolate into mixture in bowl and set aside for topping. Cover; let stand at room temperature. Transfer remaining chocolate mixture to large bowl to use as filling; chill until cold and thick, at least 6 hours and up to 1 day.
Stir water and sugar in small saucepan over low heat just until sugar dissolves. Remove from heat; mix in rum. Cover and let stand up to 1 day.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Butter 9x9x2-inch metal baking pan. Line bottom with waxed paper; butter paper. Combine vanilla and coffee powder in cup; swirl to dissolve coffee. Sift flour, cocoa, and baking soda into small bowl. Using electric mixer, beat egg yolks and 1/2 cup sugar in medium bowl until very thick and light in color, about 3 minutes. Beat in vanilla-coffee mixture. Using clean dry beaters, beat egg whites, cream of tartar, and salt in large bowl until soft peaks form. Gradually add remaining 1/4 cup sugar, beating until stiff but not dry. Fold 1/3 of whites into yolk mixture. Fold in half of flour mixture. Fold in half of remaining whites, then remaining flour mixture, then remaining whites. Transfer batter to prepared pan; gently spread to even thickness.
Bake cake until puffed and tester inserted into center comes out clean, about 18 minutes. Cool in pan on rack (cake may shrink slightly).
Cut around pan to loosen cake. Turn out onto work surface; peel off paper. Using long serrated knife, cut cake horizontally in half. Place 1 half, cut side up, on platter. Drizzle half of syrup (about 3 1/2 tablespoons) over. Using electric mixer, beat cold chocolate filling until thick and lighter in color, less than 1 minute. Spread all of filling evenly over cake layer, aligning with sides of cake (filling will be about 1 inch thick). Drizzle remaining syrup over cut side of second cake layer. Place layer, syrup side down, atop filling; press to adhere. Rewarm topping over low heat just until pourable. Pour topping onto top center of cake. Using small spatula, spread topping to edges, being careful to keep it from spilling over. Chill cake up to 1 day, covering loosely with foil or with cake dome after 2 hours.
Cut cake into 16 squares and serve.

Cinnamon Coffee Cake Kotniuk 
1 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons double-acting baking powder
1 cup sour cream
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/3 cups granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/3 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 teaspoon cinnamon

In a bowl whisk together the flour, the baking powder, and a pinch of salt and in another bowl stir together the sour cream and the baking soda. In a large bowl cream together the butter and 1 cup of the granulated sugar until the mixture is light and fluffy, add the eggs, 1 at a time, beating well after each addition, and beat in the vanilla. Stir in the flour mixture alternately with the sour cream mixture and stir the batter until it is combined well. Pour the batter into a buttered 10-inch round cake pan. In a small bowl stir together the remaining 1/3 cup granulated sugar, the brown sugar, and the cinnamon and swirl the sugar mixture into the batter. Bake the cake in the middle of a preheated 350 degrees F. oven for 45 to 50 minutes, or until a tester comes out clean, transfer it to a rack, and let it cool.

Almond Cakes 
2 tablespoons (30 g) unsalted butter, melted, for buttering 21 financier molds
1 cup (140 g) finely ground almonds
1 2/3 cups (210 g) confectioners sugar
1/2 cup (70g) unbleached all-purpose flour
Pinch of salt
3/4 cup (185 g) egg whites (5 to 6)
3/4 cup (6 ounces; 185 g) unsalted butter, melted and cooled

Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F(230 degrees C).
With a pastry brush, use the 2 tablespoons melted butter to thoroughly butter the financier molds. Arrange them side by side, but not touching, on a baking sheet. Place the baking sheet with the buttered molds in the freezer to resolidify the butter and make the financiers easier to unmold.
In a large bowl, combine the almonds, sugar, flour, and salt. Mix to blend. Add the egg whites and mix until thoroughly blended. Add the 3/4 cup butter and mix until thoroughly blended. The mixture will be fairly thin and pourable.
Spoon the batter into the molds, filling them almost to the rim. Place the baking sheet in the center of the oven. Bake until the financiers just being to rise, about 7 minutes. Reduce the heat to 400 degrees F(205 degrees C). Bake until the financiers are a light, delicate brown and begin to firm up, about another 7 minutes. Turn off the oven heat and let the financiers rest in the oven until firm, about another 7 minutes.
Remove the baking sheet from the oven and let the financiers cool in the molds for 10 minutes. Unmold. (Note: Wash molds immediately with a stiff brush in hot water without detergent so that they retain their seasoning.) The financiers may be stored in an airtight container for several days.

Chocolate Chip Oatmeal Cookies 
1/2 cup solid vegetable shortening
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
3/4 cup sugar
3/4 cup firmly packed dark brown sugar
2 eggs
1 3.4-ounce package vanilla instant pudding mix
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 teaspoon water
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 cup old-fashioned oats
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1 12-ounce package semisweet chocolate chips
1 1/2 cups chopped walnuts (about 6 ounces)

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter heavy large cookie sheets. Beat vegetable shortening and unsalted butter in large bowl until light. Gradually add white and brown sugars and beat mixture until fluffy. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Add vanilla pudding mix, vanilla extract, baking soda, water, ground cinnamon, ground nutmeg and salt and mix until well blended. Mix in oats, then flour. Stir in chocolate chips and walnuts.
Drop cookie dough by large rounded spoonfuls (about 3 tablespoons each) onto prepared cookie sheets, spacing 2 inches apart. Bake until cookies appear dry and tops are lightly cracked and soft when pressed, about 12 minutes (do not overbake). Cool cookies 5 minutes on cookie sheets. Transfer cookies to racks and cool. (Store cookies in airtight container.)

Upside-Down Pear Gingerbread Cake 
2 1/2 firm pears (preferably Bosc)
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
3/4 cup packed light brown sugar
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
1 teaspoon ground ginger
1/2 teaspoon ground cloves
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup molasses (preferably mild)
1 cup boiling water
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/2 cup packed light brown sugar
1 large egg, lightly beaten
Accompaniment: vanilla ice cream
a well-seasoned 10-inch cast-iron skillet or a 12-inch deep nonstick skillet (handle wrapped with a double layer of foil if not ovenproof)

Peel and core pears and cut each into 8 wedges.
Melt butter in skillet over moderate heat until foam subsides. Reduce heat to low, then sprinkle brown sugar over bottom of skillet and cook, undisturbed, 3 minutes (not all sugar will be melted). Arrange pears decoratively over sugar and cook, undisturbed, 2 minutes. Remove from heat.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, cinnamon, ginger, cloves, and salt in a bowl. Whisk together molasses and boiling water in a small bowl. Beat together butter, brown sugar, and egg in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium speed until creamy, about 2 minutes, then alternately mix in flour mixture and molasses in 3 batches at low speed until smooth.
Pour batter over topping in skillet, spreading evenly and being careful not to disturb pears, and bake in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, 40 to 50 minutes.
Cool cake in skillet on a rack 5 minutes. Run a thin knife around edge of skillet, then invert a large plate with a lip over skillet and, using pot holders to hold skillet and plate tightly together, invert cake onto plate. Replace any pears that stick to skillet. Serve warm or at room temperature.

Jumbles 
3 cups flour
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 cups sugar
1/2 pound butter, room temperature
3 large eggs, room temperature
2 1/2 teaspoons caraway seeds
Sugar for rolling

Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Lightly grease two cookie sheets. Sift flour and salt into a large bowl. Set aside. With electric mixer, cream butter and add sugar gradually. To flour add very well beaten eggs, butter mixture, and seeds. Beat vigorously with wooden spoon to combine well. By hand, gently knead ingredients into a ball of soft dough. If the weather is warm and the dough is too soft to shape, you can refrigerate it for a couple of hours. Roll teaspoonfuls of the dough on a very lightly floured work surface, forming long thin ropes (about 5 inches). Roll the ropes in a plate of sugar. Place the ropes on prepared baking sheets, curling them into a circle and gently pressing ends together. Bake for 10-12 minutes until edges are very brown. Cool cookies on rack. They crisp when cool.
Variations; The caraway seeds are unexpected and a lovely complement to this sweet cookie. For a sweet, decadent cookie, substitute toffee candy bits for the seeds. This dough can be made into little crunchy cakes by placing scant 1/4 cup portions into well buttered and sugared muffin tins.

Christmas Cheesecake with English Toffee Filling 
1 1/2 cups graham cracker crumbs (from about 5 ounces graham crackers)
1/2 cup toasted almonds, finely chopped
1/2 cup English toffee bits (such as Skor)
2 tablespoons (packed) dark brown sugar
1/4 teaspoon salt
6 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
4 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1 cup (packed) dark brown sugar
4 large eggs
1 tablespoon vanilla extract
1/4 teaspoon almond extract
8 ounces chocolate-covered English toffee (such as Skor or Heath bars), cut into 1/2-inch pieces
1 16-ounce container sour cream
1/2 cup sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Assorted candies (such as gumdrops and holiday M&M;’s)

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Mix first 5 ingredients in medium bowl. Add butter; stir until moist clumps form. Press mixture over bottom and 1 inch up sides of 10-inch-diameter springform pan. Bake crust until just set, about 5 minutes. Set aside. Reduce oven temperature to 325 degrees F.
Beat cream cheese and sugar in large bowl until blended. Beat in eggs 1 at a time, blending well after each addition. Beat in both extracts. Pour half of mixture into prepared crust; sprinkle with toffee pieces. Pour remaining mixture over. Bake until edges are puffed but center is barely set, about 55 minutes.
Mix sour cream, sugar and vanilla in medium bowl until smooth. Pour topping over hot cheesecake. Bake cake until topping is just set, about 5 minutes. Transfer to rack; cool 10 minutes. Run knife between cake and pan sides. Chill cake uncovered overnight.
Remove pan sides and place cake on platter. Garnish top with candies.

Gingerbread House 
6 3/4 cups all purpose flour
4 1/2 teaspoons ground ginger
1 1/2 teaspoons ground cinnamon
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
3/4 teaspoon ground cardamom
1 1/2 cups solid vegetable shortening
1 1/2 cups sugar
3 large eggs
3/4 cup robust (dark) molasses
1 roll kitchen parchment (at least 10 yards long — sold at cookware stores and at some supermarkets)
1 1/2-inch round cookie cutter for roof tiles
Assorted cookie cutters (such as Christmas tree, gingerbread man, and star)
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
6 cardboard sheets (about 15 X 15 inches)
Waxed paper

Sift flour, ginger, cinnamon, baking soda, salt and cardamom into medium bowl. Using electric mixer, beat shortening in large bowl until fluffy. Add sugar and beat to blend. Beat in eggs 1 at a time. Add molasses and beat on high speed until well blended. Add dry ingredients in 4 additions, beating at low speed until dough forms. Divide dough into 6 equal pieces. Flatten each piece into rectangle. Wrap each in plastic and refrigerate until firm enough to roll, at least 6 hours. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Keep refrigerated.)
Each of the six pieces of dough will be used for one of the large sections of the house (the two side walls, the front and the back walls, and the two roof sections). The scraps will be rerolled to make the roof tiles, trees, stars, figures and other cookies for nibbling.
On one cardboard sheet, draw 14-inch round and cut out, making base for house. On another cardboard sheet, draw one 7- X 10-inch rectangle and cut out. Outline rectangle 3 more times on cardboard sheets and cut out, making 4 foundation rectangles. Draw one 6- X 9-inch rectangle on cardboard sheet and cut out, making roof template. Draw one 7- X 4-inch rectangle on cardboard sheet and cut out, making side wall template. Cut out 2 (1 1/2-inch) squares for windows.
To make the template for the front and back of the house, draw a 4- X 5-inch rectangle on cardboard sheet, then use the 5-inch side of the rectangle as the base for a triangle with the opposite angle 4 inches away from base. To make a door, cut a 1 1/2- X 2 3/4-inch rectangle in the center of the opposite 5-inch side of rectangle.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F.
Roll out 1 dough piece (keep remaining dough refrigerated) between two 15-inch-long sheets of parchment to scant 1/4-inch rectangle, turning over dough and parchment occasionally. If parchment wrinkles, peel off, smooth wrinkle and reposition parchment over dough; continue to roll out dough to required thickness.
To make roof, place cardboard roof template atop parchment. Using small sharp knife, cut around template through top sheet of parchment to make 6x9-inch rectangle. Peel top parchment off dough.
Pull away excess dough from around the rectangle. Slide dough rectangle on its bottom parchment onto heavy large baking sheet. Gather dough scraps; wrap in plastic and refrigerate.
Bake rectangle until dry looking, firm to touch in center and just beginning to darken around edges, about 13 minutes. Slide parchment with rectangle onto rack and cool completely. Rinse baking sheet under cold water to cool; wipe dry.
Repeat rolling, cutting and baking of each remaining 5 large dough pieces, 1 piece at a time, to make second roof section, 2 side walls, front wall and back wall (cut out windows on side walls and door on front wall but not door on back wall). Gather and refrigerate dough scraps for use later and rinse baking sheet to cool each time.
Roll out some of reserved dough scraps between sheets of parchment to 1/8-inch thickness. Peel off top parchment. Using floured 1 1/2-inch round cookie cutter, cut out rounds for roof tiles. Using small knife as aid, cut and pull away dough from between rounds.
Slide parchment with cookie rounds onto cooled baking sheet. Bake cookies until dry looking and firm to touch, about 9 minutes. Slide parchment with cookies onto rack and cool cookies. Working in batches, repeat with more reserved dough to roll, cut and bake a total of 50 round cookies, gathering, wrapping and chilling any dough scraps each time.
Roll out some of reserved dough between sheets of parchment to 1/8-inch thickness. Cut out 2 1/2x1 1/2-inch rectangle for front door. Using floured cookie cutters, cut out several stars, gingerbread figures, Christmas trees and other decorative shapes as desired. Using small knife as aid, pull or cut away dough from around door and between shapes. Slide parchment with cookies onto cooled baking sheet. Bake cookies until dry looking and firm to touch, about 9 minutes. Slide parchment with cookies onto rack and cool cookies completely. Remove all baked gingerbread from parchment. (All gingerbread can be prepared 2 days ahead. Store airtight at room temperature.)
You will prepare this recipe twice: once for assembling the gingerbread house, and again for decorating it.
4 large egg whites
7 to 7 1/2 cups powdered white sugar
Using electric mixer, beat egg whites in medium bowl until very foamy, about 1 minute. Add 1/2 cup powdered sugar. Beat until well blended. Add remaining cups sugar, 1/2 cup at a time, beating until well blended after each addition and scraping down sides of bowl occasionally.
Beat icing at high speed until very thick and stiff, about 5 minutes. (Second batch of icing will be made later.)
Assembly of Foundation and Walls 2 pastry bags 1 1/4- to 3/8-inch diameter plain round pastry tip
Place 14-inch round cardboard base on work surface. Spoon some icing into pastry bag fitted with 1/4- to 3/8-inch diameter tip; cover icing in bowl tightly to prevent drying. Pipe a small dab of icing in center of round. Place one 7x10-inch cardboard foundation rectangle on icing; press to adhere.
Pipe small mound of icing in center of rectangle. Place second 7x10-inch cardboard rectangle over; press to adhere. Repeat with more icing and remaining two 7x10-inch rectangles, forming the foundation for house in center of round cardboard base.
Pipe thick line of icing on bottom edge of 1 side wall. Stand wall on cardboard foundation, icing side down, 1 inch in from and parallel to one long side and 2 inches in from one short side; hold for 5 minutes.
Pipe thick line of icing onto front edge of wall. Press back edge of front wall (with door cutout) into icing on front edge of side wall. Hold pieces together for 5 minutes.
Pipe thick line of icing on bottom edge and up front edge of second side wall. Press icing on front edge of side wall into the back edge of front wall, positioning wall parallel to first side wall. Hold for 5 minutes.
Pipe line of icing up back edge of each side wall. Press edges of back wall (without door) into icing, forming the back of the house. Hold 5 minutes to set.
Pipe lines of icing inside house at 4 intersections of walls, along the base and on outside at all vertical joints to reinforce.
Pipe a thick line of icing along 1 long edge of front-door cookie. Attach cookie to left side of door opening in front wall, creating an opened front door.
Pipe any icing left in pastry bag back into bowl of icing. Cover tightly; store at room temperature to use for decorating later. Let house stand until icing is completely dry and very hard — about 12 hours.
1 1/8-inch diameter plain round pastry tip 1 1/4- to 3/8-inch diameter plain round pastry tip 2 pastry bags
Prepare a second batch of icing.
Beat in any remaining icing from the first batch. Spoon 1 cup icing into pastry bag fitted with 1/8-inch diameter tip. Outline windows and front door decoratively. Pipe decorations on front and back walls.
Spoon icing into a new pastry bag fitted with 1/4- to 3/8-inch diameter plain tip. Pipe thick line of icing down 1 diagonal edge of front wall; continue piping icing along top edge of adjoining side wall and up diagonal edge of back wall.
Press 1 roof rectangle into icing, positioning so that top edge aligns with tops of front and back walls and lower edge overhangs side wall by about 1 1/4 inches. Hold in position for 5 minutes to set.
Pipe additional lines of icing along roof joints inside house to reinforce.
Pipe thick line of icing down second diagonal edge of front wall; continue piping icing along top edge of adjoining side wall and up diagonal edge of back wall. Press second roof rectangle into icing, positioning so that top edge aligns with edge of first roof rectangle and lower edge overhangs side wall by about 1 1/4 inches. Hold in position for 5 minutes to set.
Let house stand until icing hardens, at least 3 hours.
Cover bowl of icing and let stand at room temperature.
Spoon more icing into pastry bag fitted with 1/4- to 3/8-inch diameter plain tip. Pipe small mound of icing in center of underside of 1 round cookie. Align cookie edges flush with one bottom corner of roof; press to adhere. Repeat with about 5 more cookies to form bottom row of roof tiles, cutting end cookie to align with edge of roof.
Pipe generous mound of icing on upper half of underside of 1 round cookie. Position cookie halfway between 2 first row cookies and overlapping them by about 3/4-inch. Press icing portion gently onto roof. Repeat with more cookies to form second row; cutting cookies to fit at each end.
Repeat with more cookies to cover first side of roof. Attach cookies in same way on second roof rectangle.
Using first pastry bag fitted with 1/8-inch-diameter tip, outline the bottom halves and cut edges of roof tiles with icing.
12 hard red-and-white striped peppermint candies, cut in half with serrated knife
4 striped candy canes, cut to fit corners of house under roof
Cinnamon imperials Chocolate nonpareils Other assorted candies
Spoon icing into pastry bag fitted with 1/4- to 3/8-inch-diameter tip. Pipe 1 or more thick lines of frosting between roof sections at top of house, filling opening completely. Gently press cut side of peppermint candies in row into icing.
Pipe 1 thick vertical line of icing at each corner of house; press 1 trimmed candy cane into each.
Pipe small rounds of icing onto both sides of door for doorknobs and in center of each roof tile. Press cinnamon imperials into each round of icing.
Using pastry bag fitted with 1/8-inch-diameter tip, pipe small mound of icing onto edge of roof.
Slowly pull bag downward while squeezing out icing so that about 3/4- to 1-inch section of icing hangs freely. Pull bag away, leaving  inchicicle inch hanging. Repeat at 1/4-inch intervals around roof edge. Pipe decorative line of icing along front and back eaves of roof sections.
Outline and decorate gingerbread figures, trees, stars and other cookies. (Icing may be colored, if desired.) Using back of spoon or flexible spatula, spread icing around base of house and on cardboard base, creating  inchsnow-covered inch landscape.
Press chocolate nonpareils into icing, making path to front door. Stand decorated cookies in icing.

Basic Butter Cookies 
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon baking powder
1/2 teaspoon salt
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 cup sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
Garnish: coarse or sanding sugar*; or melted chocolate (see cooks' note, below)

Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt in a small bowl.
Beat together butter and sugar in a large bowl with an electric mixer at medium-high speed until pale and fluffy, about 3 minutes in a standing mixer (preferably fitted with paddle attachment) or 6 with a handheld. Beat in egg and vanilla. Reduce speed to low, then add flour mixture and mix until just combined.
Form dough into a 12-inch log (2 inches in diameter) on a sheet of plastic wrap and roll up dough in plastic wrap. Chill dough on a baking sheet until firm, at least 4 hours. (To roll cookies into balls, see cooks' note, below.)
Put oven racks in upper and lower thirds of oven and preheat oven to 375 degrees F.
Cut enough 1/8- to 1/4-inch-thick slices from log with a heavy knife to fill 2 ungreased large baking sheets, arranging slices about 1 inch apart (chill remainder of log, wrapped in plastic wrap). If garnishing with coarse sugar, sprinkle slices with it.
Bake cookies, switching position of sheets halfway through baking, until edges are golden, 12 to 15 minutes total. Cool on sheets 3 minutes, then transfer with a metal spatula to racks to cool completely. Make more cookies with remaining dough on cooled baking sheets.
*Available at specialty foods shops and New York Cake & Baking Distributor (800-942-2639).

Warm Chocolate Raspberry Pudding Cake 
3 ounces fine-quality bittersweet chocolate (not unsweetened)
1/2 cup seedless raspberry jam (about 5 ounces)
1/2 cup heavy cream
1/2 cup boiling water
1/3 cup plus 2 teaspoons unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch process)
1/4 cup whole milk
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
1/3 cup seedless raspberry jam (about 3‚ ounces)
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1/3 cup packed light brown sugar
1/3 cup granulated sugar
2 large eggs
1 cup all-purpose flour
3/4 teaspoon baking soda
1/4 teaspoon salt
Garnish: raspberries

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. and generously butter a 9- by 2-inch round cake pan.
Chop chocolate. In a small heavy saucepan bring jam, cream, and chocolate to a simmer, stirring occasionally, until smooth. Pour frosting into cake pan.
In a bowl whisk together boiling water and cocoa powder until smooth and whisk in milk, vanilla, and jam. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugars until light and fluffy and add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Into another bowl sift together flour, baking soda, and salt and add to egg mixture in batches alternately with cocoa mixture, beginning and ending with flour mixture and beating well after each addition.
Pour batter evenly over frosting mixture and bake in middle of oven 30 to 35 minutes, or until a tester inserted into cake comes out clean (frosting on bottom will still be liquid). Cool cake slightly in pan on a rack, 10 to 20 minutes. Cake may be made 1 day ahead, cooled completely in pan and left in pan, covered, at room temperature. Reheat cake, uncovered, at 350 degrees F. 10 to 15 minutes.
Run a thin knife around edge of pan and twist pan gently back and forth on a flat surface to loosen cake. Invert a cake plate with a slight lip over cake pan and, holding pan and plate together with both hands, invert cake onto plate. Frosting will cover cake and run onto plate.
Serve cake garnished with raspberries.

Cardamom-Walnut Cookies 
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
2 1/2 teaspoons ground cardamom
1 1/2 cups powdered sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, room temperature
2 teaspoons vanilla extract
1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 cups all purpose flour
1 1/2 cups walnuts, toasted, finely chopped

Mix 1 cup granulated sugar and 1/2 teaspoon cardamom in large bowl. Mix 1/2 teaspoon cardamom and powdered sugar in medium bowl. Set mixtures aside.
Combine remaining 1/2 cup granulated sugar, 1 1/2 teaspoons cardamom, butter, vanilla extract, lemon peel and salt in another large bowl. Using electric mixer, beat at medium-high speed until well blended. Add flour and chopped nuts. Beat until smooth dough forms, scraping down sides of bowl occasionally. Gather dough into ball and wrap in plastic; chill 1 hour.
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment. Using hands and generous 1 tablespoon dough for each cookie, roll dough into forty-eight 3/4-inch balls; transfer to baking sheets. Bake cookies until golden, about 25 minutes. Let cool 5 minutes on sheets.
Add 12 warm cookies to large bowl of granulated sugar and cardamom and toss gently to coat. Repeat with 12 more cookies. Let remaining 24 cookies cool completely on sheet. Sift powdered sugar and cardamom mixture over. (Can be made 3 days ahead. Store in airtight container.)

Best Cocoa Brownies 
10 tablespoons (1 1/4 sticks) unsalted butter
1 1/4 cups sugar
3/4 cup plus 2 tablespoons unsweetened cocoa powder (natural or Dutch-process)
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon pure vanilla extract
2 cold large eggs
1/2 cup all-purpose flour
2/3 cup walnut or pecan pieces (optional)
An 8-inch square baking pan

Position a rack in the lower third of the oven and preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Line the bottom and sides of the baking pan with parchment paper or foil, leaving an overhang on two opposite sides.
Combine the butter, sugar, cocoa, and salt in a medium heatproof bowl and set the bowl in a wide skillet of barely simmering water. Stir from time to time until the butter is melted and the mixture is smooth and hot enough that you want to remove your finger fairly quickly after dipping it in to test. Remove the bowl from the skillet and set aside briefly until the mixture is only warm, not hot.
Stir in the vanilla with a wooden spoon. Add the eggs one at a time, stirring vigorously after each one. When the batter looks thick, shiny, and well blended, add the flour and stir until you cannot see it any longer, then beat vigorously for 40 strokes with the wooden spoon or a rubber spatula. Stir in the nuts, if using. Spread evenly in the lined pan.
Bake until a toothpick plunged into the center emerges slightly moist with batter, 20 to 25 minutes. Let cool completely on a rack.
Lift up the ends of the parchment or foil liner, and transfer the brownies to a cutting board. Cut into 16 or 25 squares.

Chocolate Spoonful Cake 
3 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
1 1/2 sticks (3/4 cup) unsalted butter, softened
1 1/2 cups granulated sugar
1/2 cup firmly packed light brown sugar
1 3/4 cups sour cream
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla extract
3 large eggs
2 cups all-purpose flour
1/2 cup unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch-process)
1 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 teaspoon salt
3 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 cups sour cream
1 cup heavy cream
1 cup confectioners' sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3 ounces semisweet chocolate, chopped
2 tablespoons unsalted butter
1 cup semisweet chocolate chips and 1/2 cup semiseet chocolate shavings, shaved with a vegetable peeler from a bar of chocolate, for coating side of cake

Preaheat oven to 375 degrees F. Butter and flour two 9- by 2-inch round cake pans, knocking out excess flour.
In a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water melt chocolate, stirring until smooth, and cool.
In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together butter and sugars until light and fluffy. Bet in sour cream and vanilla until combined. Add eggs, 1 at a time, beating well with after each addition.
In a bowl whisk together flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, and salt and gradually add to sour cream mixture, beating until just combined. Beat in chocolate until batter is just combined and divide between pans.
Bake layers in middle of oven until a tester comes out clean, about 30 minutes. Cool layers in pans on rack 10 minutes and invert onto racks to cook completely.
In a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water, melt chocolate, stirring until smooth, and cool to room temperature. In a large bowl with an electric mixer beat together sour cream, heavy cream, confectioners' sugar, and vanilla until thickened. Beat in chocolate until combined.
In a double boiler or a metal bowl set over a pan of barely simmering water, melt chocolate and butter, stirring until smooth, and cool.
With a long serrated knife halve cake layers horizontally. Stack layers on a cake plate, spreading 1 cup filling/frosting between each layer. Spread side of cake with remaining filling/frosting.
Pour glaze on top of cake, spreading to just cover top, and coat side with chocolate chips and shavings, pressing them in gently.

Russian Tea Cakes 
2 1/4 cups all purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1 cup (2 sticks) butter, room temperature
1/2 cup powdered sugar
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
3/4 cup finely chopped husked hazelnuts, toasted
Powdered sugar

Sift flour and salt together. Using electric mixer, cream butter in large bowl until light. Gradually add 1/2 cup sugar and beat until fluffy. Add vanilla. Mix in dry ingredients in 3 batches. Mix in hazelnuts. Refrigerate at least 1 hour or up to 12 hours.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Form dough into 1-inch balls. Space 1 inch apart on ungreased cookie sheet. Bake until just firm to touch, about 15 minutes. Transfer to rack and cool slightly. Roll in powdered sugar. Cool completely. Roll cookies in powdered sugar again. Store in airtight container.

Triple-Layer Carrot Cake with Cream Cheese Frosting 
2 cups sugar
1 1/2 cups vegetable oil
4 large eggs
2 cups all purpose flour
2 teaspoons baking powder
2 teaspoons baking soda
1 teaspoon salt
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
3 cups finely grated peeled carrots (about 1 pound)
1/2 cup chopped pecans (about 1/2 ounce)
1/2 cup raisins
4 cups powdered sugar
2 8-ounce packages cream cheese, room temperature
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
4 teaspoons vanilla extract

Preheat oven to 325 degrees F. Lightly grease three 9-inch-diameter cake pans with 1 1/2-inch-high sides. Line bottom of pans with waxed paper. Lightly grease waxed paper. Using electric mixer, beat sugar and vegetable oil in bowl until combined. Add eggs 1 at a time, beating well after each addition. Sift flour, baking powder, baking soda, salt, cinnamon and nutmeg into sugar and oil mixture. Stir in carrots, chopped pecans and raisins.
Pour batter into prepared pans, dividing equally. Bake until toothpick inserted into center comes out clean and cakes begin to pull away from sides of pans, about 45 minutes. Cool in pans on racks 15 minutes. Turn out cakes onto racks and cool completely. (Can be made 1 day ahead. Wrap tightly in plastic and store at room temperature.)
Using electric mixer, beat all ingredients in medium bowl until smooth and creamy.
Place 1 cake layer on platter. Spread with 3/4 cup frosting. Top with another cake layer. Spread with 3/4 cup frosting. Top with remaining cake layer. Using icing spatula, spread remaining frosting in decorative swirls over sides and top of cake. (Can be prepared 2 days ahead. Cover with cake dome and refrigerate.) Serve cake cold or at room temperature.

Double Chocolate Layer Cake 
3 ounces fine-quality semisweet chocolate such as Callebaut
1 1/2 cups hot brewed coffee
3 cups sugar
2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 cups unsweetened cocoa powder (not Dutch process)
2 teaspoons baking soda
3/4 teaspoon baking powder
1 1/4 teaspoons salt
3 large eggs
3/4 cup vegetable oil
1 1/2 cups well-shaken buttermilk
3/4 teaspoon vanilla
1 pound fine-quality semisweet chocolate such as Callebaut
1 cup heavy cream
2 tablespoons sugar
2 tablespoons light corn syrup
1/2 stick (1/4 cup) unsalted butter
two 10- by 2-inch round cake pans

Preheat oven to 300 degrees F. and grease pans. Line bottoms with rounds of wax paper and grease paper.
Finely chop chocolate and in a bowl combine with hot coffee. Let mixture stand, stirring occasionally, until chocolate is melted and mixture is smooth.
Into a large bowl sift together sugar, flour, cocoa powder, baking soda, baking powder, and salt. In another large bowl with an electric mixer beat eggs until thickened slightly and lemon colored (about 3 minutes with a standing mixer or 5 minutes with a hand-held mixer). Slowly add oil, buttermilk, vanilla, and melted chocolate mixture to eggs, beating until combined well. Add sugar mixture and beat on medium speed until just combined well. Divide batter between pans and bake in middle of oven until a tester inserted in center comes out clean, 1 hour to 1 hour and 10 minutes.
Cool layers completely in pans on racks. Run a thin knife around edges of pans and invert layers onto racks. Carefully remove wax paper and cool layers completely. Cake layers may be made 1 day ahead and kept, wrapped well in plastic wrap, at room temperature.
Finely chop chocolate. In a 1 1/2- to 2-quart saucepan bring cream, sugar, and corn syrup to a boil over moderately low heat, whisking until sugar is dissolved. Remove pan from heat and add chocolate, whisking until chocolate is melted. Cut butter into pieces and add to frosting, whisking until smooth.
Transfer frosting to a bowl and cool, stirring occasionally, until spreadable (depending on chocolate used, it may be necessary to chill frosting to spreadable consistency).
Spread frosting between cake layers and over top and sides. Cake keeps, covered and chilled, 3 days. Bring cake to room temperature before serving.

Chocolate Chip Cookies 
3 cups all-purpose flour
1 1/2 teaspoons baking soda
1 1/2 teaspoons salt
2 sticks (1 cup) unsalted butter, melted and cooled slightly
1 1/2 cups packed light brown sugar
1 cup granulated sugar
3 large eggs
1 1/2 teaspoons vanilla
2 1/2 cups semisweet chocolate chips (16 ounces)

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line 2 large baking sheets with parchment or wax paper.
Whisk together flour, baking soda, and salt in a small bowl.
Beat together butter and sugars in a large bowl with an electric mixer at high speed until pale and fluffy, 2 to 3 minutes. Lightly beat 1 egg with a fork in a small bowl and add 1 3/4 tablespoons of it plus 2 remaining whole eggs to butter mixture, beating with mixer until creamy, about 1 minute. Beat in vanilla. Reduce speed to low and mix in flour mixture until just blended, then stir in chips.
Scoop 1/4 cup batter for each cookie, arranging mounds 3 inches apart, on 2 baking sheets. Flatten mounds into 3-inch rounds using moistened palm of your hand. Form remaining cookies on additional sheets of parchment.
Bake, 1 sheet at a time, until golden, 13 to 15 minutes. Transfer cookies to a rack to cool and continue making cookies in same manner using cooled baking sheets.

Banana Coconut Muffins 
1 1/4 cups all-purpose flour
1 teaspoon baking powder
1/4 teaspoon salt
2 very ripe bananas, mashed (3/4 cup)
1 stick (1/2 cup) unsalted butter, melted
2/3 cup sugar
1 large egg
1/2 teaspoon vanilla
3/4 cup sweetened flaked coconut
a muffin tin with 8 (1/2-cup) muffin cups; paper liners

Put oven rack in middle position and preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Line muffin cups with liners.
Whisk together flour, baking powder, and salt in a bowl. Whisk together bananas, butter, sugar, egg, vanilla, and 1/2 cup coconut in a large bowl until combined well, then fold in flour mixture until flour is just moistened.
Divide batter among lined muffin cups and sprinkle with remaining 1/4 cup coconut. Bake until muffins are puffed and golden, about 25 minutes. Transfer muffins to a rack and cool slightly.

Lemon-Nutmeg Shortbreads with Lemon Icing 
1 cup all purpose flour
2 1/2 tablespoons cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon ground nutmeg
1/8 teaspoon salt
1/2 cup (1 stick) unsalted butter, room temperature
1/3 cup sugar
1 tablespoon plus 1 teaspoon grated lemon peel
1 teaspoon vanilla extract
Lemon Icing

Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Combine flour, cornstarch, nutmeg and salt in medium bowl; whisk to blend. Using electric mixer, beat butter, sugar, lemon peel and vanilla in large bowl until light and fluffy. Add dry ingredients and mix until dough begins to come together.
Turn dough out onto sheet of waxed paper. Gather dough into ball; flatten into disk. Cover with second sheet of paper. Roll out dough to 1/4-inch thickness, turning and freeing paper from dough occasionally. Free bottom sheet of paper; remove top sheet. Cut out cookies, using 3-inch cutters. Transfer to 2 ungreased baking sheets, spacing cookies 1/2 inch apart. Gather and reroll scraps; cut out additional cookies. Transfer to sheet.
Bake cookies until firm to touch and just beginning to color, about 15 minutes. Transfer cookies to rack and cool.
Drizzle icing from fork tines onto cookies. (Can be made 1 week ahead. Store airtight in single layer at room temperature.)

German Cinnamon Stars (Zimtsterne) 
1 1/2 cups (about 8 ounces) hazelnuts or blanched almonds, finely ground
1 teaspoon ground cinnamon
3/4 teaspoon grated lemon zest
1/4 cup egg whites (about 2 large)
Pinch of salt
1 1/2 cups confectioners' sugar
About 1/2 cup additional confectioners' sugar for rolling

1. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees. Line a large baking sheet with parchment paper or aluminum foil.
2. Combine the nuts, cinnamon, and zest. Beat the egg whites on low speed until foamy, about 30 seconds. Add the salt, increase the speed to medium-high, and beat until soft peaks form, 1 to 2 minutes. Gradually add the confectioners' sugar and beat until stiff and glossy, 5 to 8 minutes. Reserve one-third of the meringue (about 1/3 cup) and fold the nut mixture into the remaining meringue.
3. Place a large piece of waxed paper on a flat surface and sprinkle with additional confectioners' sugar. Place the nut mixture on the sugar, lightly sprinkle with more confectioners' sugar, top with a second piece of waxed paper, and roll out 1/4 inch thick. Remove the top piece of waxed paper. Using a cookie cutter dipped in water, cut into 2-inch star shapes or use a sharp knife to cut into diamonds. Reroll and cut any scraps. Place on the prepared baking sheet.
4. Bake until set, 10 to 12 minutes. Spread the reserved meringue over the top of the cookies and bake until the tops are lightly colored, about 5 minutes. Transfer to a rack and let cool. Zimtsternen taste best if allowed to stand for 24 hours. Store in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 3 weeks.

